The Epistle of Paul to the Romans
Subject:
The Gospel of God — To Make Sinners Sons of God to Constitute the Body of Christ, Which Is Expressed as the Local Churches 
Romans Chapter 1
Rom. 1:1 Paul, a slave of Christ Jesus, a called apostle, separated unto the gospel of God,
Rom. 1:2 Which He promised beforehand through His prophets in the holy Scriptures,
Rom. 1:3 Concerning His Son, who came out of the seed of David according to the flesh,
Rom. 1:4 Who was designated the Son of God in power according to the Spirit of holiness out of the resurrection of the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord;
Rom. 1:5 Through whom we have received grace and apostleship unto the obedience of faith among all the Gentiles on behalf of His name,
Rom. 1:6 Among whom you also are the called ones of Jesus Christ;
Rom. 1:7 To all who are in Rome, beloved of God, the called saints: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Rom. 1:8 First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for you all because your faith is proclaimed throughout the whole world.
Rom. 1:9 For God is my witness, whom I serve in my spirit in the gospel of His Son, how unceasingly I make mention of you always in my prayers,
Rom. 1:10 Beseeching if by any means now at last I may be prospered in the will of God to come to you.
Rom. 1:11 For I long to see you that I may impart to you some spiritual gift so that you may be established;
Rom. 1:12 That is, that I with you may be encouraged among you through the faith which is in one another, both yours and mine.
Rom. 1:13 And I do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, that often I purposed to come to you (yet have been hindered until the present), that I might have some fruit among you also, even as among the rest of the Gentiles.
Rom. 1:14 I am debtor both to Greeks and to barbarians, both to wise and to foolish;
Rom. 1:15 So, for my part, I am ready to announce the gospel to you also who are in Rome.
Rom. 1:16 For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone who believes, both to Jew first and to Greek.
Rom. 1:17 For the righteousness of God is revealed in it out of faith to faith, as it is written, “But the righteous one shall have life and live by faith.”
Rom. 1:18 For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven upon all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who hold down the truth in unrighteousness,
Rom. 1:19 Because that which is known of God is manifest within them, for God manifested it to them.
Rom. 1:20 For the invisible things of Him, both His eternal power and divine characteristics, have been clearly seen since the creation of the world, being perceived by the things made, so that they would be without excuse;
Rom. 1:21 Because though they knew God, they did not glorify Him as God or thank Him, but rather became vain in their reasonings, and their heart, lacking understanding, was darkened.
Rom. 1:22 Professing to be wise, they became fools
Rom. 1:23 And changed the glory of the incorruptible God into the likeness of an image of corruptible man and of birds and four-footed animals and reptiles.
Rom. 1:24 Therefore God gave them up in the lusts of their hearts to uncleanness, so that they dishonor their bodies among themselves,
Rom. 1:25 Who exchanged the truth of God for the lie, and worshipped and served the creation rather than the Creator, who is blessed forever. Amen.
Rom. 1:26 Therefore God gave them up to passions of dishonor; for their females exchanged the natural use for that which is contrary to nature;
Rom. 1:27 And likewise also the males, leaving the natural use of the female, burned in their craving toward one another, males with males committing unseemliness and fully receiving in themselves the retribution of their error which was due.
Rom. 1:28 And even as they did not approve of holding God in their full knowledge, God gave them up to a disapproved mind, to do the things which are not fitting,
Rom. 1:29 Being filled with all unrighteousness, wickedness, covetousness, malice; full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, malignity;
Rom. 1:30 Whisperers, slanderers, hateful to God, insolent, arrogant, boasters, inventors of evil things, disobedient to parents,
Rom. 1:31 Senseless, faithless, affectionless, merciless;
Rom. 1:32 Who, though fully knowing the righteous judgment of God, that those who practice such things are worthy of death, not only do them, but also have fellow delight in those who practice them.


Romans Chapter 2
Rom. 2:1 Therefore you are without excuse, O every man who judges, for in what you judge another you condemn yourself; for you who judge practice the same things.
Rom. 2:2 But we know that the judgment of God is according to truth upon those who practice such things.
Rom. 2:3 And do you consider this, O man, who judge those who practice such things and do the same yourself, that you will escape the judgment of God?
Rom. 2:4 Or do you despise the riches of His kindness and forbearance and long-suffering, not knowing that God’s kindness is leading you to repentance?
Rom. 2:5 But, according to your hardness and your unrepentant heart, you are storing up for yourself wrath in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God,
Rom. 2:6 Who will render to each according to his works:
Rom. 2:7 To those who by endurance in good work seek glory and honor and incorruptibility, life eternal;
Rom. 2:8 But to those who are selfishly contentious and disobedient to the truth and obey unrighteousness, wrath and fury.
Rom. 2:9 Tribulation and anguish upon every soul of man who commits evil, both of Jew first and of Greek;
Rom. 2:10 But glory and honor and peace to everyone who works good, both to Jew first and to Greek.
Rom. 2:11 For there is no respect of persons with God.
Rom. 2:12 For as many as have sinned without the law shall also perish without the law; and as many as have sinned under the law shall be judged by the law
Rom. 2:13 (For it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous before God, but the doers of the law shall be justified.
Rom. 2:14 For when Gentiles, who have no law, do by nature the things of the law, these, though they have no law, are a law to themselves,
Rom. 2:15 Who show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience bearing witness with it and their reasonings, one with the other, accusing or even excusing them.)
Rom. 2:16 In the day when God judges the secrets of men according to my gospel through Jesus Christ.
Rom. 2:17 But if you bear the name of Jew, and rest upon the law, and boast in God,
Rom. 2:18 And know the will, and approve the things that are more excellent, being instructed out of the law,
Rom. 2:19 And have confidence that you yourself are a guide to the blind, a light to those in darkness,
Rom. 2:20 One who disciplines the foolish, a teacher of babes, having the proper form of the knowledge and truth in the law;
Rom. 2:21 You therefore who teach another, do you not teach yourself? You who preach not to steal, do you steal?
Rom. 2:22 You who say not to commit adultery, do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you rob their temples?
Rom. 2:23 You who boast in the law, do you by transgression of the law dishonor God?
Rom. 2:24 For “the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you,” even as it is written.
Rom. 2:25 For circumcision profits if you practice the law; but if you are a transgressor of the law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision.
Rom. 2:26 If therefore the uncircumcision keeps the ordinances of the law, will not his uncircumcision be accounted as circumcision?
Rom. 2:27 And the uncircumcision by nature, if he fulfills the law, will judge you who through the letter and circumcision are a transgressor of the law.
Rom. 2:28 For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly; neither is circumcision that which is outward in the flesh.
Rom. 2:29 But he is a Jew who is one inwardly; and circumcision is of the heart, in spirit, not in letter, whose praise is not from men, but from God.
Romans chapter 3

Rom. 3:1 What then is the advantage of the Jew? Or what is the profit of the circumcision?
Rom. 3:2 Much in every way. First, that they were entrusted with the oracles of God.
Rom. 3:3 For what if some disbelieved? Shall their unbelief annul the faithfulness of God?
Rom. 3:4 Absolutely not! But let God be true and every man a liar, as it is written, “That You may be declared righteous in Your words and may overcome when You are judged.”
Rom. 3:5 But if our unrighteousness commends the righteousness of God, what shall we say? Is the God who inflicts wrath unrighteous? I speak according to man.
Rom. 3:6 Absolutely not! Otherwise how shall God judge the world?
Rom. 3:7 But if the truthfulness of God has abounded in my lie unto His glory, why still am I also being judged as a sinner?
Rom. 3:8 And why not say (as we are slanderously charged and as some affirm that we say), Let us do evil that good may come? whose judgment is just.
Rom. 3:9 What then? Are we better? Not at all! For we have previously charged both Jews and Greeks that they are all under sin,
Rom. 3:10 Even as it is written, “There is none righteous, not even one;
Rom. 3:11 There is none who understands, there is none who seeks out God.
Rom. 3:12 All have turned aside; together they have become useless; there is none who does good; there is not so much as one.
Rom. 3:13 Their throat is an opened grave; with their tongues they practiced deceit; the poison of asps is under their lips;
Rom. 3:14 Whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness.
Rom. 3:15 Swift are their feet to shed blood,
Rom. 3:16 Destruction and misery are in their ways,
Rom. 3:17 And the way of peace they have not known.
Rom. 3:18 There is no fear of God before their eyes.”
Rom. 3:19 Now we know that whatever things the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped and all the world may fall under the judgment of God;
Rom. 3:20 Because out of the works of the law no flesh shall be justified before Him; for through the law is the clear knowledge of sin.
Rom. 3:21 But now, apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested, witness being borne to it by the Law and the Prophets;
Rom. 3:22 Even the righteousness of God through the faith of Jesus Christ to all those who believe, for there is no distinction;
Rom. 3:23 For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God,
Rom. 3:24 Being justified freely by His grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus;
Rom. 3:25 Whom God set forth as a propitiation place through faith in His blood, for the demonstrating of His righteousness, in that in His forbearance God passed over the sins that had previously occurred,
Rom. 3:26 With a view to the demonstrating of His righteousness in the present time, so that He might be righteous and the One who justifies him who is of the faith of Jesus.
Rom. 3:27 Where then is boasting? It is excluded. Through what kind of law? That of works? No, but through the law of faith.
Rom. 3:28 For we account that a man is justified by faith apart from the works of the law.
Rom. 3:29 Or is He the God of the Jews only? Is He not of the Gentiles also? Yes, of the Gentiles also,
Rom. 3:30 If indeed God is one, who will justify the circumcision out of faith and the uncircumcision through faith.
Rom. 3:31 Do we then make the law of no effect through faith? Absolutely not! Rather, we establish the law.
Romans chapter 4
Rom. 4:1 What then shall we say that Abraham our forefather according to the flesh has found?
Rom. 4:2 For if Abraham was justified out of works, he has something to boast in, but not before God.
Rom. 4:3 For what does the Scripture say? “And Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him as righteousness.”
Rom. 4:4 Now to the one who works, his wages are not accounted according to grace, but according to what is due.
Rom. 4:5 But to the one who does not work, but believes on Him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is accounted as righteousness.
Rom. 4:6 Even as David also speaks blessing on the man to whom God accounts righteousness apart from works:
Rom. 4:7 “Blessed are they whose lawlessnesses have been forgiven, and whose sins have been covered over.
Rom. 4:8 Blessed is the man to whom the Lord shall by no means account sin.”
Rom. 4:9 Is this blessing then upon the circumcision only, or also upon the uncircumcision? For we say, Faith was accounted to Abraham as righteousness.
Rom. 4:10 How then was it accounted? While he was in circumcision or in uncircumcision? Not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision.
Rom. 4:11 And he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of the faith which he had while in uncircumcision, that he might be the father of all those in uncircumcision who believe, that righteousness might be accounted to them also,
Rom. 4:12 And the father of circumcision to those who not only are of the circumcision, but who also walk in the steps of that faith of our father Abraham, which he had in uncircumcision.
Rom. 4:13 For it was not through the law that the promise was made to Abraham or to his seed that he would be the heir of the world, but through the righteousness of faith.
Rom. 4:14 For if those of the law are heirs, faith has been made void and the promise has been annulled;
Rom. 4:15 For the law works out wrath; but where there is no law, neither is there transgression.
Rom. 4:16 Therefore the inheritance is out of faith that it might be according to grace, so that the promise may be certain to all the seed, not to that which is of the law only, but also to that which is of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all
Rom. 4:17 (As it is written, “I have appointed you a father of many nations”) in the sight of God whom he believed, who gives life to the dead and calls the things not being as being.
Rom. 4:18 He beyond hope believed in hope in order that he might become the father of many nations, according to that which was spoken, “So shall your seed be.”
Rom. 4:19 And not weakening in his faith, he considered his own body as already dead, being about a hundred years old, as well as the deadening of Sarah’s womb;
Rom. 4:20 But with regard to the promise of God, he did not doubt in unbelief, but was empowered by faith, giving glory to God
Rom. 4:21 And being fully persuaded that what He had promised He was able also to do.
Rom. 4:22 Therefore also it was accounted to him as righteousness.
Rom. 4:23 Now it was not written for his sake only that it was accounted to him,
Rom. 4:24 But for ours also to whom it is to be accounted, who believe on Him who has raised Jesus our Lord from the dead,
Rom. 4:25 Who was delivered for our offenses and was raised for our justification.


Romans Chapter 5

Rom. 5:1 Therefore having been justified out of faith, we have peace toward God through our Lord Jesus Christ,
Rom. 5:2 Through whom also we have obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand and boast because of the hope of the glory of God.
Rom. 5:3 And not only so, but we also boast in our tribulations, knowing that tribulation produces endurance;
Rom. 5:4 And endurance, approvedness; and approvedness, hope;
Rom. 5:5 And hope does not put us to shame, because the love of God has been poured out in our hearts through the Holy Spirit, who has been given to us.
Rom. 5:6 For while we were yet weak, in due time Christ died for the ungodly.
Rom. 5:7 For scarcely for a righteous man will anyone die, though perhaps for the good man someone would even dare to die.
Rom. 5:8 But God commends His own love to us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.
Rom. 5:9 Much more then, having now been justified in His blood, we will be saved through Him from the wrath.
Rom. 5:10 For if we, being enemies, were reconciled to God through the death of His Son, much more we will be saved in His life, having been reconciled,
Rom. 5:11 And not only so, but also boasting in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received the reconciliation.
Rom. 5:12 Therefore just as through one man sin entered into the world, and through sin, death; and thus death passed on to all men because all have sinned —
Rom. 5:13 For until the law sin was in the world, but sin is not charged to one’s account when there is no law.
Rom. 5:14 But death reigned from Adam until Moses, even over those who had not sinned after the likeness of Adam’s transgression, who is a type of Him who was to come.
Rom. 5:15 But it is not that as the offense was, so also the gracious gift is; for if by the offense of the one the many died, much more the grace of God and the free gift in grace of the one man Jesus Christ have abounded to the many.
Rom. 5:16 And it is not that as through one who sinned, so also the free gift is; for the judgment was out of one offense unto condemnation, but the gracious gift is out of many offenses unto justification.
Rom. 5:17 For if, by the offense of the one, death reigned through the one, much more those who receive the abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness will reign in life through the One, Jesus Christ.
Rom. 5:18 So then as it was through one offense unto condemnation to all men, so also it was through one righteous act unto justification of life to all men.
Rom. 5:19 For just as through the disobedience of one man the many were constituted sinners, so also through the obedience of the One the many will be constituted righteous.
Rom. 5:20 And the law entered in alongside that the offense might abound; but where sin abounded, grace has superabounded,
Rom. 5:21 In order that just as sin reigned in death, so also grace might reign through righteousness unto eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.


Romans Chapter 6
Rom. 6:1 What then shall we say? Should we continue in sin that grace may abound?
Rom. 6:2 Absolutely not! We who have died to sin, how shall we still live in it?
Rom. 6:3 Or are you ignorant that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus have been baptized into His death?
Rom. 6:4 We have been buried therefore with Him through baptism into His death, in order that just as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, so also we might walk in newness of life.
Rom. 6:5 For if we have grown together with Him in the likeness of His death, indeed we will also be in the likeness of His resurrection,
Rom. 6:6 Knowing this, that our old man has been crucified with Him in order that the body of sin might be annulled, that we should no longer serve sin as slaves;
Rom. 6:7 For he who has died is justified from sin.
Rom. 6:8 Now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with Him,
Rom. 6:9 Knowing that Christ, having been raised from the dead, dies no more; death lords it over Him no more.
Rom. 6:10 For the death which He died, He died to sin once for all; but the life which He lives, He lives to God.
Rom. 6:11 So also you, reckon yourselves to be dead to sin, but living to God in Christ Jesus.
Rom. 6:12 Do not let sin therefore reign in your mortal body so that you obey the body’s lusts;
Rom. 6:13 Neither present your members as weapons of unrighteousness to sin, but present yourselves to God as alive from the dead, and your members as weapons of righteousness to God.
Rom. 6:14 For sin will not lord it over you, for you are not under the law but under grace.
Rom. 6:15 What then? Should we sin, because we are not under the law but under grace? Absolutely not!
Rom. 6:16 Do you not know that to whom you present yourselves as slaves for obedience, his slaves you are whom you obey, whether of sin unto death or of obedience unto righteousness?
Rom. 6:17 But thanks be to God that though you were slaves of sin, you have obeyed from the heart the form of teaching into which you were delivered.
Rom. 6:18 And having been freed from sin, you were enslaved to righteousness.
Rom. 6:19 I speak in human terms because of the weakness of your flesh. For just as you presented your members as slaves to uncleanness and lawlessness unto lawlessness, so now present your members as slaves to righteousness unto sanctification.
Rom. 6:20 For when you were slaves of sin, you were free with regard to righteousness.
Rom. 6:21 What fruit then did you have at that time? Things of which you are now ashamed, for the end of those things is death.
Rom. 6:22 But now, having been freed from sin and enslaved to God, you have your fruit unto sanctification, and the end, eternal life.
Rom. 6:23 For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.


Romans Chapter 7

Rom. 7:1 Or are you ignorant, brothers (for I speak to those who know the law), that the law lords it over the man as long as he lives?
Rom. 7:2 For the married woman is bound by the law to her husband while he is living; but if the husband dies, she is discharged from the law regarding the husband.
Rom. 7:3 So then if, while the husband is living, she is joined to another man, she will be called an adulteress; but if the husband dies, she is free from the law, so that she is not an adulteress, though she is joined to another man.
Rom. 7:4 So then, my brothers, you also have been made dead to the law through the body of Christ so that you might be joined to another, to Him who has been raised from the dead, that we might bear fruit to God.
Rom. 7:5 For when we were in the flesh, the passions for sins, which acted through the law, operated in our members to bear fruit to death.
Rom. 7:6 But now we have been discharged from the law, having died to that in which we were held, so that we serve in newness of spirit and not in oldness of letter.
Rom. 7:7 What then shall we say? Is the law sin? Absolutely not! But I did not know sin except through the law; for neither did I know coveting, except the law had said, “You shall not covet.”
Rom. 7:8 But sin, seizing the opportunity through the commandment, worked out in me coveting of every kind; for without the law sin is dead.
Rom. 7:9 And I was alive without the law once; but when the commandment came, sin revived and I died.
Rom. 7:10 And the commandment, which was unto life, this very commandment was found to me to be unto death.
Rom. 7:11 For sin, seizing the opportunity through the commandment, deceived me and through it killed me.
Rom. 7:12 So then the law is holy, and the commandment holy and righteous and good.
Rom. 7:13 Did then that which is good become death to me? Absolutely not! But sin did, that it might be shown to be sin by working out death in me through that which is good, that sin through the commandment might become exceedingly sinful.
Rom. 7:14 For we know that the law is spiritual; but I am fleshy, sold under sin.
Rom. 7:15 For what I work out, I do not acknowledge; for what I will, this I do not practice; but what I hate, this I do.
Rom. 7:16 But if what I do not will, this I do, I agree with the law that it is good.
Rom. 7:17 Now then it is no longer I that work it out but sin that dwells in me.
Rom. 7:18 For I know that in me, that is, in my flesh, nothing good dwells; for to will is present with me, but to work out the good is not.
Rom. 7:19 For I do not do the good which I will; but the evil which I do not will, this I practice.
Rom. 7:20 But if what I do not will, this I do, it is no longer I that work it out but sin that dwells in me.
Rom. 7:21 I find then the law, with me who wills to do the good, because the evil is present with me.
Rom. 7:22 For I delight in the law of God according to the inner man,
Rom. 7:23 But I see a different law in my members, warring against the law of my mind and making me a captive to the law of sin which is in my members.
Rom. 7:24 Wretched man that I am! Who will deliver me from the body of this death?
Rom. 7:25 Thanks be to God, through Jesus Christ our Lord! So then with the mind I myself serve the law of God, but with the flesh, the law of sin.


Romans chapter 8
Rom. 8:1 There is now then no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus.
Rom. 8:2 For the law of the Spirit of life has freed me in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and of death.
Rom. 8:3 For that which the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God, sending His own Son in the likeness of the flesh of sin and concerning sin, condemned sin in the flesh,
Rom. 8:4 That the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us, who do not walk according to the flesh but according to the spirit.
Rom. 8:5 For those who are according to the flesh mind the things of the flesh; but those who are according to the spirit, the things of the Spirit.
Rom. 8:6 For the mind set on the flesh is death, but the mind set on the spirit is life and peace.
Rom. 8:7 Because the mind set on the flesh is enmity against God; for it is not subject to the law of God, for neither can it be.
Rom. 8:8 And those who are in the flesh cannot please God.
Rom. 8:9 But you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if indeed the Spirit of God dwells in you. Yet if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he is not of Him.
Rom. 8:10 But if Christ is in you, though the body is dead because of sin, the spirit is life because of righteousness.
Rom. 8:11 And if the Spirit of the One who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, He who raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through His Spirit who indwells you.
Rom. 8:12 So then, brothers, we are debtors not to the flesh to live according to the flesh;
Rom. 8:13 For if you live according to the flesh, you must die, but if by the Spirit you put to death the practices of the body, you will live.
Rom. 8:14 For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, these are sons of God.
Rom. 8:15 For you have not received a spirit of slavery bringing you into fear again, but you have received a spirit of sonship in which we cry, Abba, Father!
Rom. 8:16 The Spirit Himself witnesses with our spirit that we are children of God.
Rom. 8:17 And if children, heirs also; on the one hand, heirs of God; on the other, joint heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with Him that we may also be glorified with Him.
Rom. 8:18 For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the coming glory to be revealed upon us.
Rom. 8:19 For the anxious watching of the creation eagerly awaits the revelation of the sons of God.
Rom. 8:20 For the creation was made subject to vanity, not of its own will, but because of Him who subjected it,
Rom. 8:21 In hope that the creation itself will also be freed from the slavery of corruption into the freedom of the glory of the children of God.
Rom. 8:22 For we know that the whole creation groans together and travails in pain together until now.
Rom. 8:23 And not only so, but we ourselves also, who have the firstfruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan in ourselves, eagerly awaiting sonship, the redemption of our body.
Rom. 8:24 For we were saved in hope. But a hope that is seen is not hope, for who hopes for what he sees?
Rom. 8:25 But if we hope for what we do not see, we eagerly await it through endurance.
Rom. 8:26 Moreover, in like manner the Spirit also joins in to help us in our weakness, for we do not know for what we should pray as is fitting, but the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings which cannot be uttered.
Rom. 8:27 But He who searches the hearts knows what the mind of the Spirit is, because He intercedes for the saints according to God.
Rom. 8:28 And we know that all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to His purpose.
Rom. 8:29 Because those whom He foreknew, He also predestinated to be conformed to the image of His Son, that He might be the Firstborn among many brothers;
Rom. 8:30 And those whom He predestinated, these He also called; and those whom He called, these He also justified; and those whom He justified, these He also glorified.
Rom. 8:31 What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us?
Rom. 8:32 Indeed, He who did not spare His own Son, but delivered Him up for us all, how shall He not also with Him freely give us all things?
Rom. 8:33 Who shall bring a charge against God’s chosen ones? It is God who justifies.
Rom. 8:34 Who is he who condemns? It is Christ Jesus who died and, rather, who was raised, who is also at the right hand of God, who also intercedes for us.
Rom. 8:35 Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or anguish or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword?
Rom. 8:36 As it is written, “For Your sake we are being put to death all day long; we have been accounted as sheep for slaughter.”
Rom. 8:37 But in all these things we more than conquer through Him who loved us.
Rom. 8:38 For I am persuaded that neither death nor life nor angels nor principalities nor things present nor things to come nor powers
Rom. 8:39 Nor height nor depth nor any other creature will be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.
  
Romans Chapter 9
Rom. 9:1 I speak the truth in Christ, I do not lie, my conscience bearing witness with me in the Holy Spirit,
Rom. 9:2 That I have great grief and unceasing pain in my heart.
Rom. 9:3 For I could wish that I myself were a curse, separated from Christ for my brothers, my kinsmen according to the flesh,
Rom. 9:4 Who are Israelites, whose are the sonship and the glory and the covenants and the giving of the law and the service and the promises;
Rom. 9:5 Whose are the fathers, and out of whom, as regards what is according to flesh, is the Christ, who is God over all, blessed forever. Amen.
Rom. 9:6 But it is not as though the word of God has fallen away, for not all who are out of Israel are Israel;
Rom. 9:7 Neither is it that because they are the seed of Abraham, they are all children; but, “In Isaac shall your seed be called,”
Rom. 9:8 That is, it is not the children of the flesh who are the children of God, but the children of the promise are accounted as the seed.
Rom. 9:9 For this is the word of promise, “At this time next year I will come, and Sarah shall have a son.”
Rom. 9:10 And not only so, but Rebecca also, having conceived by one, Isaac our father,
Rom. 9:11 Though the children had not yet been born nor had done anything good or bad (that the purpose of God according to selection might remain, not of works but of Him who calls),
Rom. 9:12 It was said to her, “The greater shall serve the less”;
Rom. 9:13 As it is written, “Jacob have I loved, but Esau have I hated.”
Rom. 9:14 What then shall we say? Is there unrighteousness with God? Absolutely not!
Rom. 9:15 For to Moses He says, “I will have mercy on whomever I will have mercy, and I will have compassion on whomever I will have compassion.”
Rom. 9:16 So then it is not of him who wills, nor of him who runs, but of God who shows mercy.
Rom. 9:17 For the Scripture says to Pharaoh, “For this very thing I have raised you up, that I might show in you My power, and that My name might be proclaimed in all the earth.”
Rom. 9:18 So then He has mercy on whom He wills, and He hardens whom He wills.
Rom. 9:19 You will say to me then, Why does He still find fault? For who withstands His will?
Rom. 9:20 But rather, O man, who are you who answer back to God? Shall the thing molded say to him who molded it, Why did you make me thus?
Rom. 9:21 Or does not the potter have authority over the clay to make out of the same lump one vessel unto honor and another unto dishonor?
Rom. 9:22 And what if God, wishing to demonstrate His wrath and make His power known, endured with much long-suffering vessels of wrath fitted for destruction,
Rom. 9:23 In order that He might make known the riches of His glory upon vessels of mercy, which He had before prepared unto glory,
Rom. 9:24 Even us, whom He has also called, not only from among the Jews but also from among the Gentiles?
Rom. 9:25 As He also says in Hosea, “I will call those who were not My people My people, and her who was not beloved beloved;
Rom. 9:26 And it shall be that in the place where it was said to them, You are not My people, there shall they be called sons of the living God.”
Rom. 9:27 And Isaiah cries concerning Israel, “Though the number of the sons of Israel be like the sand of the sea, it is the remnant that shall be saved;
Rom. 9:28 For the Lord will execute His word upon the earth, accomplishing it and cutting it short.”
Rom. 9:29 And as Isaiah has previously said, “Unless the Lord of hosts had left us a seed, we would have become like Sodom and been made like Gomorrah.”
Rom. 9:30 What then shall we say? That the Gentiles who did not pursue righteousness have laid hold of righteousness, but a righteousness which is out of faith;
Rom. 9:31 But Israel, pursuing a law of righteousness, did not attain to that law.
Rom. 9:32 Why? Because they pursued it not out of faith, but as it were out of works. They stumbled at the stone of stumbling,
Rom. 9:33 As it is written, “Behold, I lay in Zion a stone of stumbling, a rock of offense, and he who believes on Him shall not be put to shame.”


Romans Chapter 10
Rom. 10:1 Brothers, the good pleasure of my heart and my petition to God for them is for their salvation.
Rom. 10:2 For I bear them witness that they have a zeal for God, but not according to full knowledge;
Rom. 10:3 For because they were ignorant of God’s righteousness and sought to establish their own righteousness, they were not subject to the righteousness of God.
Rom. 10:4 For Christ is the end of the law unto righteousness to everyone who believes.
Rom. 10:5 For Moses writes concerning the righteousness which is out of the law: “The man who does them shall live by them.”
Rom. 10:6 But the righteousness which is out of faith speaks in this way, Do not say in your heart, “Who will ascend into heaven?” that is, to bring Christ down;
Rom. 10:7 Or, Who will descend into the abyss? that is, to bring Christ up from the dead.
Rom. 10:8 But what does it say? “The word is near you, in your mouth and in your heart,” that is, the word of the faith which we proclaim,
Rom. 10:9 That if you confess with your mouth Jesus as Lord and believe in your heart that God has raised Him from the dead, you will be saved;
Rom. 10:10 For with the heart there is believing unto righteousness, and with the mouth there is confession unto salvation.
Rom. 10:11 For the Scripture says, “Everyone who believes on Him shall not be put to shame.”
Rom. 10:12 For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek, for the same Lord is Lord of all and rich to all who call upon Him;
Rom. 10:13 For “whoever calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved.”
Rom. 10:14 How then shall they call upon Him into whom they have not believed? And how shall they believe into Him of whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without one who proclaims Him?
Rom. 10:15 And how shall they proclaim Him unless they are sent? As it is written, “How beautiful are the feet of those who announce the news of good things!”
Rom. 10:16 But not all have obeyed the gospel, for Isaiah says, “Lord, who has believed what he has heard from us?”
Rom. 10:17 So faith comes out of hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ.
Rom. 10:18 But I say, Have they not heard? Yes surely: “Their voice has gone out into all the earth and their words to the ends of the inhabited earth.”
Rom. 10:19 But I say, Did Israel not know this? First, Moses says, “I will provoke you to jealousy by them who are not a nation; by a nation without understanding I will anger you.”
Rom. 10:20 And Isaiah is very bold and says, “I was found by those who did not seek Me; I became manifest to those who did not ask for Me.”
Rom. 10:21 But with regard to Israel he says, “All the day long I have stretched out My hands to a people who disobey and contradict.”


Romans Chapter 11
Rom. 11:1 I say then, Has God cast away His people? Absolutely not! For I also am an Israelite, out of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin.
Rom. 11:2 God has not cast away His people whom He foreknew. Or do you not know what the Scripture says in the passage concerning Elijah, how he pleads with God against Israel?
Rom. 11:3 “Lord, they have killed Your prophets, they have torn down Your altars; and I am left alone, and they are seeking my life.”
Rom. 11:4 But what does the divine answer say to him? “I have reserved for Myself seven thousand men who have not bowed the knee to Baal.”
Rom. 11:5 In the same way then at the present time also there has come into being a remnant according to the selection of grace.
Rom. 11:6 But if by grace, it is no longer out of works; otherwise grace is no longer grace.
Rom. 11:7 What then? That which Israel is seeking after, this it has not obtained, but the chosen have obtained it, and the rest have been hardened;
Rom. 11:8 As it is written, “God gave them a spirit of deep sleep, eyes to see not and ears to hear not, until this very day.”
Rom. 11:9 And David says, “Let their table become a snare and a trap and a stumbling block and a retribution to them;
Rom. 11:10 Let their eyes be darkened so that they cannot see; and bend their back continually.”
Rom. 11:11 I say then, Have they stumbled so as to fall? Absolutely not! But by their misstep salvation has come to the Gentiles, to provoke them to jealousy.
Rom. 11:12 But if their misstep has become riches for the world, and their loss, riches for the Gentiles, how much more their fullness!
Rom. 11:13 But I am speaking to you, the Gentiles. Inasmuch therefore as I am an apostle of the Gentiles, I glorify my ministry,
Rom. 11:14 If perhaps I may provoke those of my flesh to jealousy and save some of them.
Rom. 11:15 For if their being cast aside is the reconciliation of the world, what will their being received back be, if not life from the dead?
Rom. 11:16 Now if the dough offered as the firstfruits is holy, the lump is also; and if the root is holy, the branches are also.
Rom. 11:17 But if some of the branches were broken off, and you, being a wild olive tree, were grafted in among them and became a fellow partaker of the root of fatness of the olive tree,
Rom. 11:18 Do not boast against the branches; but if you boast, remember that it is not you who bear the root, but the root you.
Rom. 11:19 You will say then, Branches were broken off so that I might be grafted in.
Rom. 11:20 Rightly said: they were broken off because of unbelief, and you stand by faith. Do not be high-minded, but fear;
Rom. 11:21 For if God did not spare the natural branches, neither will He spare you.
Rom. 11:22 Behold then the kindness and severity of God: on those who fell, severity; but on you, the kindness of God, if you continue in His kindness; otherwise you also will be cut off.
Rom. 11:23 And they also, if they do not continue in unbelief, will be grafted in, for God is able to graft them in again.
Rom. 11:24 For if you were cut off from what is by nature a wild olive tree and were grafted contrary to nature into the cultivated olive tree, how much more will these who are the natural branches be grafted into their own olive tree!
Rom. 11:25 For I do not want you, brothers, to be ignorant of this mystery (lest you be wise in yourselves), that hardness has come upon Israel in part, until the fullness of the Gentiles comes in;
Rom. 11:26 And thus all Israel will be saved, as it is written, “The Deliverer will come out of Zion; He will turn away ungodliness from Jacob.
Rom. 11:27 And this is the covenant from Me with them, when I take away their sins.”
Rom. 11:28 According to the gospel they are enemies for your sake, but according to the selection they are beloved for the fathers’ sake.
Rom. 11:29 For the gracious gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable.
Rom. 11:30 For just as you once disobeyed God, but now have been shown mercy because of their disobedience,
Rom. 11:31 So these also now have disobeyed, so that because of the mercy shown to you they also now may be shown mercy.
Rom. 11:32 For God has shut up all in disobedience that He might show mercy to all.
Rom. 11:33 Oh, the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable are His judgments and untraceable His ways!
Rom. 11:34 For who has known the mind of the Lord, or who has become His counselor?
Rom. 11:35 Or who has first given to Him, and it will be repaid to him?
Rom. 11:36 Because out from Him and through Him and to Him are all things. To Him be the glory forever. Amen.


Romans Chapter 12
Rom. 12:1 I exhort you therefore, brothers, through the compassions of God to present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, well pleasing to God, which is your reasonable service.
Rom. 12:2 And do not be fashioned according to this age, but be transformed by the renewing of the mind that you may prove what the will of God is, that which is good and well pleasing and perfect.
Rom. 12:3 For I say, through the grace given to me, to everyone who is among you, not to think more highly of himself than he ought to think, but to think so as to be sober-minded, as God has apportioned to each a measure of faith.
Rom. 12:4 For just as in one body we have many members, and all the members do not have the same function,
Rom. 12:5 So we who are many are one Body in Christ, and individually members one of another.
Rom. 12:6 And having gifts that differ according to the grace given to us, whether prophecy, let us prophesy according to the proportion of faith;
Rom. 12:7 Or service, let us be faithful in that service; or he who teaches, in that teaching;
Rom. 12:8 Or he who exhorts, in that exhortation; he who gives, in simplicity; he who leads, in diligence; he who shows mercy, in cheerfulness.
Rom. 12:9 Let love be without hypocrisy. Abhor what is evil; cling to what is good.
Rom. 12:10 Love one another warmly in brotherly love; take the lead in showing honor one to another.
Rom. 12:11 Do not be slothful in zeal, but be burning in spirit, serving the Lord.
Rom. 12:12 Rejoice in hope; endure in tribulation; persevere in prayer.
Rom. 12:13 Contribute to the needs of the saints; pursue hospitality.
Rom. 12:14 Bless those who persecute you; bless and do not curse.
Rom. 12:15 Rejoice with those who rejoice; weep with those who weep.
Rom. 12:16 Be of the same mind toward one another, not setting your mind on the high things but going along with the lowly; do not be wise in yourselves.
Rom. 12:17 Repay no one evil for evil; take forethought for things honorable in the sight of all men.
Rom. 12:18 If possible, as far as it depends on you, live in peace with all men.
Rom. 12:19 Do not avenge yourselves, beloved, but give place to the wrath of God, for it is written, “Vengeance is Mine; I will repay, says the Lord.”
Rom. 12:20 But “if your enemy is hungry, feed him; if he is thirsty, give him a drink; for in doing this you will heap coals of fire upon his head.”
Rom. 12:21 Do not be conquered by evil, but conquer evil with good.


Romans Chapter 13
Rom. 13:1 Let every person be subject to the authorities over him, for there is no authority except from God, and those which exist are ordained by God.
Rom. 13:2 So then he who resists the authority opposes God’s ordination, and those who oppose will receive judgment to themselves.
Rom. 13:3 For the rulers are not a terror to the good work, but to the evil. Do you want to have no fear of the authority? Do what is good, and you will have praise from him;
Rom. 13:4 For he is a servant of God to you for good. But if you do what is evil, fear; he does not bear the sword in vain; for he is a servant of God, an avenger for wrath to him who practices evil.
Rom. 13:5 Therefore it is necessary to be subject, not only because of wrath but also because of conscience.
Rom. 13:6 For because of this you also pay taxes; for they are God’s officers, attending constantly to this very thing.
Rom. 13:7 Render to all the things due: tax to whom tax is due, custom to whom custom is due, fear to whom fear is due, honor to whom honor is due.
Rom. 13:8 Owe nothing to anyone except to love one another; for he who loves the other has fulfilled the law.
Rom. 13:9 For, “You shall not commit adultery, you shall not murder, you shall not steal, you shall not covet,” and if there is any other commandment, it is summed up in this word, namely, “You shall love your neighbor as yourself.”
Rom. 13:10 Love does not work evil to his neighbor; therefore love is the fulfillment of the law.
Rom. 13:11 And this, knowing the time, that it is already the hour for you to be raised from sleep; for now is our salvation nearer than when we believed.
Rom. 13:12 The night is far advanced, and the day has drawn near. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the weapons of light.
Rom. 13:13 Let us walk becomingly as in the day; not in reveling and drunkenness, not in fornication and licentiousness, not in strife and jealousy.
Rom. 13:14 But put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh to fulfill its lusts.


Romans Chapter 14
Rom. 14:1 Now him who is weak in faith receive, but not for the purpose of passing judgment on his considerations.
Rom. 14:2 One believes that he may eat all things, but he who is weak eats vegetables.
Rom. 14:3 He who eats, let him not despise him who does not eat; and he who does not eat, let him not judge him who eats, for God has received him.
Rom. 14:4 Who are you who judge another’s household servant? To his own master he stands or falls; and he will be made to stand, for the Lord is able to make him stand.
Rom. 14:5 One judges one day above another; another judges every day alike. Let each be fully persuaded in his own mind.
Rom. 14:6 He who regards that day, regards it to the Lord; and he who eats, eats to the Lord, for he gives thanks to God; and he who does not eat, does not eat to the Lord, and he gives thanks to God.
Rom. 14:7 For none of us lives to himself, and none dies to himself;
Rom. 14:8 For whether we live, we live to the Lord, and whether we die, we die to the Lord. Therefore whether we live or we die, we are the Lord’s.
Rom. 14:9 For Christ died and lived again for this, that He might be Lord both of the dead and of the living.
Rom. 14:10 But you, why do you judge your brother? Or you, why do you despise your brother? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God,
Rom. 14:11 For it is written, “As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to Me, and every tongue shall openly confess to God.”
Rom. 14:12 So then each one of us will give an account concerning himself to God.
Rom. 14:13 Therefore let us judge one another no longer, but rather judge this: not to put a stumbling block or cause of falling before your brother.
Rom. 14:14 I know and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus that there is nothing unclean of itself, except to him who considers something to be unclean; to that man it is unclean.
Rom. 14:15 For if because of food your brother is wounded, you no longer walk according to love. Do not destroy by your food that man for whom Christ died.
Rom. 14:16 Therefore do not let your good be slandered;
Rom. 14:17 For the kingdom of God is not eating and drinking, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit.
Rom. 14:18 For he who serves Christ in this is well pleasing to God and approved by men.
Rom. 14:19 So then let us pursue the things of peace and the things for building up one another.
Rom. 14:20 Do not break down the work of God for the sake of food. All things indeed are clean, but it is evil for a man to eat while stumbling others.
Rom. 14:21 It is good not to eat meat nor drink wine nor to do anything by which your brother stumbles.
Rom. 14:22 The faith which you have, have to yourself before God. Blessed is he who does not judge himself in what he approves;
Rom. 14:23 But he who doubts is condemned if he eats, because it is not out of faith; for all that is not out of faith is sin.


Romans Chapter 15
Rom. 15:1 But we who are strong ought to bear the weaknesses of those who are weak and not to please ourselves.
Rom. 15:2 Let each of us please his neighbor with a view to what is good for building up.
Rom. 15:3 For Christ also did not please Himself, but as it is written, “The reproaches of those who reproached You fell upon Me.”
Rom. 15:4 For the things that were written previously were written for our instruction, in order that through endurance and through the encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope.
Rom. 15:5 Now the God of endurance and encouragement grant you to be of the same mind toward one another according to Christ Jesus,
Rom. 15:6 That with one accord you may with one mouth glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Rom. 15:7 Therefore receive one another, as Christ also received you to the glory of God.
Rom. 15:8 For I say that Christ has become a servant of the circumcision for the sake of God’s truthfulness, to confirm the promises given to the fathers,
Rom. 15:9 And that the Gentiles should glorify God for His mercy, as it is written, “Therefore I will extol You among the Gentiles, and I will sing praise to Your name.”
Rom. 15:10 And again he says, “Rejoice, Gentiles, with His people.”
Rom. 15:11 And again, “Praise the Lord, all you Gentiles, and let all the peoples speak praise to Him.”
Rom. 15:12 And again, Isaiah says, “There shall be the root of Jesse, even He who rises to rule the Gentiles; on Him will the Gentiles hope.”
Rom. 15:13 Now the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that you may abound in hope in the power of the Holy Spirit.
Rom. 15:14 But I myself also am persuaded concerning you, my brothers, that you yourselves also are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge, able also to admonish one another.
Rom. 15:15 But I have written the more boldly to you on some points so as to remind you of them again because of the grace given to me by God
Rom. 15:16 That I might be a minister of Christ Jesus to the Gentiles, a laboring priest of the gospel of God, in order that the offering of the Gentiles might be acceptable, having been sanctified in the Holy Spirit.
Rom. 15:17 I have therefore my boasting in Christ Jesus in the things pertaining to God.
Rom. 15:18 For I will not dare to speak anything of the things which Christ has not accomplished through me for the obedience of the Gentiles, by word and by work,
Rom. 15:19 In the power of signs and wonders, in the power of the Spirit of God; so that from Jerusalem and round about to Illyricum, I have fully preached the gospel of Christ,
Rom. 15:20 But have done so aspiring to announce the gospel not where Christ has been named, so that I would not build upon another’s foundation;
Rom. 15:21 But as it is written, “They will see, they to whom nothing concerning Him was announced; and those who have not heard will understand.”
Rom. 15:22 For this reason also I have been hindered these many times from coming to you.
Rom. 15:23 But now I no longer have place in these regions and have had a desire since many years ago to come to you
Rom. 15:24 Whenever I may go to Spain, for I hope to see you in passing and be sent forward there by you, if first I am filled, at least in part, by your company.
Rom. 15:25 But now I am going to Jerusalem, ministering to the saints.
Rom. 15:26 For Macedonia and Achaia have been pleased to make some contribution for the poor among the saints in Jerusalem.
Rom. 15:27 For they were pleased to do it, and their debtors they are. For if the Gentiles have shared in their spiritual things, they ought also to do service to them in material things.
Rom. 15:28 When therefore I have finished this and have sealed to them this fruit, I will go on by way of you to Spain.
Rom. 15:29 And I know that when I come to you, I will come in the fullness of the blessing of Christ.
Rom. 15:30 Now I exhort you, brothers, through our Lord Jesus Christ and through the love of the Spirit, to strive together with me in your prayers to God on my behalf,
Rom. 15:31 That I may be delivered from those who are disobedient in Judea, and that my service for Jerusalem may be acceptable to the saints,
Rom. 15:32 So that coming to you in joy through the will of God, I may refresh myself and rest with you.
Rom. 15:33 Now the God of peace be with you all. Amen.


Romans Chapter 16
Rom. 16:1 I commend to you Phoebe our sister, who is a deaconess of the church which is in Cenchrea,
Rom. 16:2 That you receive her in the Lord in a manner worthy of the saints and assist her in whatever matter she may have need of you; for she herself has also been the patroness of many, of myself as well.
Rom. 16:3 Greet Prisca and Aquila, my fellow workers in Christ Jesus,
Rom. 16:4 Who risked their own necks for my life, to whom not only I give thanks, but also all the churches of the Gentiles;
Rom. 16:5 And greet the church, which is in their house. Greet Epaenetus, my beloved, who is the firstfruits of Asia unto Christ.
Rom. 16:6 Greet Mary, one who has labored much for you.
Rom. 16:7 Greet Andronicus and Junia, my kinsmen and my fellow prisoners, who are of note among the apostles, who also were in Christ before me.
Rom. 16:8 Greet Ampliatus, my beloved in the Lord.
Rom. 16:9 Greet Urbanus, our fellow worker in Christ, and Stachys, my beloved.
Rom. 16:10 Greet Apelles, approved in Christ. Greet those of the household of Aristobulus.
Rom. 16:11 Greet Herodion, my kinsman. Greet those of the household of Narcissus who are in the Lord.
Rom. 16:12 Greet Tryphaena and Tryphosa, who labor in the Lord. Greet Persis, the beloved sister, one who has labored much in the Lord.
Rom. 16:13 Greet Rufus, chosen in the Lord, and his mother as well as mine.
Rom. 16:14 Greet Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermes, Patrobas, Hermas, and the brothers with them.
Rom. 16:15 Greet Philologus and Julia, Nereus and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints with them.
Rom. 16:16 Greet one another with a holy kiss. All the churches of Christ greet you.
Rom. 16:17 Now I exhort you, brothers, to mark those who make divisions and causes of stumbling contrary to the teaching which you have learned, and turn away from them.
Rom. 16:18 For such men do not serve our Lord Christ, but their own stomach, and through smooth words and flattering speech deceive the hearts of the simple.
Rom. 16:19 For the report of your obedience has reached to all; therefore I rejoice over you, but I want you to be wise as to what is good and guileless as to what is evil.
Rom. 16:20 Now the God of peace will crush Satan under your feet shortly. The grace of our Lord Jesus be with you.
Rom. 16:21 Timothy, my fellow worker, greets you, as well as Lucius and Jason and Sosipater, my kinsmen.
Rom. 16:22 I, Tertius, who write this epistle, greet you in the Lord.
Rom. 16:23 Gaius, my host and host of the whole church, greets you. Erastus, the city treasurer, greets you, and Quartus the brother.
Rom. 16:24 See note 24.
Rom. 16:25 Now to Him who is able to establish you according to my gospel, that is, the proclamation of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery, which has been kept in silence in the times of the ages
Rom. 16:26 But has now been manifested, and through the prophetic writings, according to the command of the eternal God, has been made known to all the Gentiles for the obedience of faith;
Rom. 16:27 To the only wise God through Jesus Christ, to Him be the glory forever and ever. Amen.


The First Epistle of Paul to the Corinthians 
Subject:
Christ and His Cross as the Solution to All Problems in the Church 
1 Corinthians Chapter 1
1 Cor. 1:1 Paul, a called apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God, and Sosthenes the brother,
1 Cor. 1:2 To the church of God which is in Corinth, to those who have been sanctified in Christ Jesus, the called saints, with all those who call upon the name of our Lord Jesus Christ in every place, who is theirs and ours:
1 Cor. 1:3 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
1 Cor. 1:4 I thank my God always concerning you based upon the grace of God which was given to you in Christ Jesus,
1 Cor. 1:5 That in everything you were enriched in Him, in all utterance and all knowledge,
1 Cor. 1:6 Even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you,
1 Cor. 1:7 So that you do not lack in any gift, eagerly awaiting the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ,
1 Cor. 1:8 Who will also confirm you until the end unreprovable in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.
1 Cor. 1:9 God is faithful, through whom you were called into the fellowship of His Son, Jesus Christ our Lord.
1 Cor. 1:10 Now I beseech you, brothers, through the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all speak the same thing and that there be no divisions among you, but that you be attuned in the same mind and in the same opinion.
1 Cor. 1:11 For it has been made clear to me concerning you, my brothers, by those of the household of Chloe, that there are strifes among you.
1 Cor. 1:12 Now I mean this, that each of you says, I am of Paul, and I of Apollos, and I of Cephas, and I of Christ.
1 Cor. 1:13 Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized into the name of Paul?
1 Cor. 1:14 I thank God that I baptized none of you except Crispus and Gaius,
1 Cor. 1:15 That no one may say that you were baptized into my name.
1 Cor. 1:16 And I did baptize the household of Stephanas also; beyond that I do not know if I baptized any other.
1 Cor. 1:17 For Christ did not send me to baptize but to announce the gospel, not in wisdom of speech that the cross of Christ may not be made void.
1 Cor. 1:18 For the word of the cross is to those who are perishing foolishness, but to us who are being saved it is the power of God.
1 Cor. 1:19 For it is written, “I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and the understanding of those who understand I will set aside.”
1 Cor. 1:20 Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this age? Has not God made the wisdom of the world foolish?
1 Cor. 1:21 For since in the wisdom of God the world through its wisdom did not know God, God was well pleased through the foolishness of the preaching to save those who believe.
1 Cor. 1:22 For indeed Jews require signs and Greeks seek wisdom,
1 Cor. 1:23 But we preach Christ crucified, to Jews a stumbling block, and to Gentiles foolishness,
1 Cor. 1:24 But to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God.
1 Cor. 1:25 Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men.
1 Cor. 1:26 For consider your calling, brothers, that there are not many wise according to flesh, not many powerful, not many wellborn.
1 Cor. 1:27 But God has chosen the foolish things of the world that He might shame those who are wise, and God has chosen the weak things of the world that He might shame the things that are strong,
1 Cor. 1:28 And the lowborn things of the world and the despised things God has chosen, things which are not, that He might bring to nought the things which are,
1 Cor. 1:29 So that no flesh may boast before God.
1 Cor. 1:30 But of Him you are in Christ Jesus, who became wisdom to us from God: both righteousness and sanctification and redemption,
1 Cor. 1:31 That as it is written, “He who boasts, let him boast in the Lord.”


1 Corinthians Chapter 2\1 Cor. 2:1 And I, when I came to you, brothers, came not according to excellence of speech or of wisdom, announcing to you the mystery of God.
1 Cor. 2:2 For I did not determine to know anything among you except Jesus Christ, and this One crucified.
1 Cor. 2:3 And I was with you in weakness and in fear and in much trembling;
1 Cor. 2:4 And my speech and my proclamation were not in persuasive words of wisdom but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power,
1 Cor. 2:5 In order that your faith would not stand in the wisdom of men but in the power of God.
1 Cor. 2:6 But we do speak wisdom among those who are full-grown, yet a wisdom not of this age nor of the rulers of this age, who are being brought to nought;
1 Cor. 2:7 But we speak God’s wisdom in a mystery, the wisdom which has been hidden, which God predestined before the ages for our glory,
1 Cor. 2:8 Which none of the rulers of this age have known; for if they had known, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory;
1 Cor. 2:9 But as it is written, “Things which eye has not seen and ear has not heard and which have not come up in man’s heart; things which God has prepared for those who love Him.”
1 Cor. 2:10 But to us God has revealed them through the Spirit, for the Spirit searches all things, even the depths of God.
1 Cor. 2:11 For who among men knows the things of man, except the spirit of man which is in him? In the same way, the things of God also no one has known except the Spirit of God.
1 Cor. 2:12 But we have received not the spirit of the world but the Spirit which is from God, that we may know the things which have been graciously given to us by God;
1 Cor. 2:13 Which things also we speak, not in words taught by human wisdom but in words taught by the Spirit, interpreting spiritual things with spiritual words.
1 Cor. 2:14 But a soulish man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him and he is not able to know them because they are discerned spiritually.
1 Cor. 2:15 But the spiritual man discerns all things, but he himself is discerned by no one.
1 Cor. 2:16 For who has known the mind of the Lord and will instruct Him? But we have the mind of Christ.


1 Corinthians Chapter 3
1 Cor. 3:1 And I, brothers, was not able to speak to you as to spiritual men, but as to fleshy, as to infants in Christ.
1 Cor. 3:2 I gave you milk to drink, not solid food, for you were not yet able to receive it. But neither yet now are you able,
1 Cor. 3:3 For you are still fleshly. For if there is jealousy and strife among you, are you not fleshly and do you not walk according to the manner of man?
1 Cor. 3:4 For when someone says, I am of Paul, and another, I of Apollos, are you not men of flesh?
1 Cor. 3:5 What then is Apollos? And what is Paul? Ministers through whom you believed, even as the Lord gave to each one of them.
1 Cor. 3:6 I planted, Apollos watered, but God caused the growth.
1 Cor. 3:7 So then neither is he who plants anything nor he who waters, but God who causes the growth.
1 Cor. 3:8 Now he who plants and he who waters are one, but each will receive his own reward according to his own labor.
1 Cor. 3:9 For we are God’s fellow workers; you are God’s cultivated land, God’s building.
1 Cor. 3:10 According to the grace of God given to me, as a wise master builder I have laid a foundation, and another builds upon it. But let each man take heed how he builds upon it.
1 Cor. 3:11 For another foundation no one is able to lay besides that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ.
1 Cor. 3:12 But if anyone builds upon the foundation gold, silver, precious stones, wood, grass, stubble,
1 Cor. 3:13 The work of each will become manifest; for the day will declare it, because it is revealed by fire, and the fire itself will prove each one’s work, of what sort it is.
1 Cor. 3:14 If anyone’s work which he has built upon the foundation remains, he will receive a reward;
1 Cor. 3:15 If anyone’s work is consumed, he will suffer loss, but he himself will be saved, yet so as through fire.
1 Cor. 3:16 Do you not know that you are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwells in you?
1 Cor. 3:17 If anyone destroys the temple of God, God will destroy him; for the temple of God is holy, and such are you.
1 Cor. 3:18 Let no one deceive himself; if anyone thinks that he is wise among you in this age, let him become foolish that he may become wise.
1 Cor. 3:19 For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God; for it is written, “He grasps the wise in their craftiness”;
1 Cor. 3:20 And again, “The Lord knows the reasonings of the wise, that they are vain.”
1 Cor. 3:21 So then let no one boast in men, for all things are yours,
1 Cor. 3:22 Whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or the world or life or death or things present or things to come; all are yours,
1 Cor. 3:23 But you are Christ’s, and Christ is God’s.


1 Corinthians Chapter 4
1 Cor. 4:1 A man should account us in this way, as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God.
1 Cor. 4:2 Here, furthermore, it is sought in stewards that one be found faithful.
1 Cor. 4:3 But to me it is a very small thing that I should be examined by you or by man’s day; rather I do not even examine myself.
1 Cor. 4:4 For I am conscious of nothing against myself; but I am not justified in this, but He who examines me is the Lord.
1 Cor. 4:5 So then do not judge anything before the time, until the Lord comes, who will both bring to light the hidden things of darkness and make manifest the counsels of the hearts, and then there will be praise to each from God.
1 Cor. 4:6 Now these things, brothers, I have transferred in figure to myself and Apollos for your sakes, that you may learn in us the matter of not going beyond what has been written, that none of you may be puffed up on behalf of one, against the other.
1 Cor. 4:7 For who distinguishes you? And what do you have that you did not receive? And if you did receive it, why do you boast as though not having received it?
1 Cor. 4:8 Already you are filled; already you have become rich; you have reigned without us. And I would have it indeed that you did reign, that we also might reign with you.
1 Cor. 4:9 For, I think, God has set forth us the apostles last of all as doomed to death, because we have become a spectacle to the world, both to angels and to men.
1 Cor. 4:10 We are fools because of Christ, but you are prudent in Christ; we are weak, but you are strong; you are glorious, but we are dishonored.
1 Cor. 4:11 Until the present hour we both hunger and thirst, and are naked and buffeted and wander without a home;
1 Cor. 4:12 And we labor, working with our own hands. Reviled we bless; persecuted we endure;
1 Cor. 4:13 Defamed we exhort. We have become as the offscouring of the world, the scum of all things, until now.
1 Cor. 4:14 It is not to shame you that I write these things but to admonish you as my beloved children.
1 Cor. 4:15 For though you have ten thousand guides in Christ, yet you do not have many fathers; for in Christ Jesus I have begotten you through the gospel.
1 Cor. 4:16 I exhort you therefore, Become imitators of me.
1 Cor. 4:17 Because of this I have sent Timothy to you, who is my beloved and faithful child in the Lord, who will remind you of my ways which are in Christ, even as I teach everywhere in every church.
1 Cor. 4:18 Now some have become puffed up as though I were not coming to you.
1 Cor. 4:19 But I will come to you shortly, if the Lord wills, and I will ascertain not the speech of those who are puffed up but the power.
1 Cor. 4:20 For the kingdom of God is not in speech but in power.
1 Cor. 4:21 What do you want? Should I come to you with a rod or in love and a spirit of meekness?


1 Corinthians Chapter 5
1 Cor. 5:1 It is actually reported that there is fornication among you, and such fornication that does not even occur among the Gentiles, that someone has his stepmother.
1 Cor. 5:2 And you are puffed up? And have you not rather mourned, that the one who has done this deed might be removed from your midst?
1 Cor. 5:3 For I, on my part, though being absent in the body but present in the spirit, have already judged, as if being present, him who has thus done this,
1 Cor. 5:4 In the name of our Lord Jesus, when you and my spirit have been assembled, with the power of our Lord Jesus,
1 Cor. 5:5 To deliver such a one to Satan for the destruction of his flesh, that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord.
1 Cor. 5:6 Your boasting is not good. Do you not know that a little leaven leavens the whole lump?
1 Cor. 5:7 Purge out the old leaven that you may be a new lump, even as you are unleavened; for our Passover, Christ, also has been sacrificed.
1 Cor. 5:8 So then let us keep the feast, not with old leaven, neither with the leaven of malice and evil, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth.
1 Cor. 5:9 I wrote to you in my letter not to mingle with fornicators,
1 Cor. 5:10 But not altogether with the fornicators of this world, or with the covetous and rapacious, or idolaters, since then you would have to go out of the world.
1 Cor. 5:11 But now I have written to you not to mingle with anyone who is called a brother, if he is a fornicator or a covetous man or an idolater or a reviler or a drunkard or a rapacious man, with such a one not even to eat.
1 Cor. 5:12 For what have I to do with judging those who are outside the church? Do you not judge those who are within the church?
1 Cor. 5:13 But those who are outside, God will judge. Remove the evil man from among yourselves.


1 Corinthians Chapter 6
1 Cor. 6:1 Does any one of you who has a case against another dare to be judged before the unrighteous and not before the saints?
1 Cor. 6:2 Or do you not know that the saints will judge the world? And if the world is judged by you, are you unworthy of the smallest judgments?
1 Cor. 6:3 Do you not know that we will judge angels, not to mention things of this life?
1 Cor. 6:4 If then you hold judgments over things of this life, do you seat as judges those who are of no account in the church?
1 Cor. 6:5 I say this to your shame. So there is no one wise among you, who will be able to discern between his brothers?
1 Cor. 6:6 But brother goes to court with brother, and this before unbelievers.
1 Cor. 6:7 Already then it is altogether a defeat to you that you have lawsuits with one another. Why not rather be wronged? Why not rather be defrauded?
1 Cor. 6:8 But you wrong and defraud, and this your brothers.
1 Cor. 6:9 Or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be led astray; neither fornicators nor idolaters nor adulterers nor effeminate nor homosexuals
1 Cor. 6:10 Nor thieves nor the covetous, not drunkards, not revilers, not the rapacious will inherit the kingdom of God.
1 Cor. 6:11 And these things were some of you; but you were washed, but you were sanctified, but you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and in the Spirit of our God.
1 Cor. 6:12 All things are lawful to me, but not all things are profitable; all things are lawful to me, but I will not be brought under the power of anything.
1 Cor. 6:13 Foods are for the stomach, and the stomach for foods; but God will bring to nought both it and them. But the body is not for fornication but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body.
1 Cor. 6:14 And God has both raised up the Lord and will raise us up through His power.
1 Cor. 6:15 Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ? Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them members of a prostitute? Absolutely not!
1 Cor. 6:16 Or do you not know that he who is joined to a prostitute is one body? For He says, “The two shall be one flesh.”
1 Cor. 6:17 But he who is joined to the Lord is one spirit.
1 Cor. 6:18 Flee fornication. Every sin which a man may do is outside the body, but he who commits fornication sins against his own body.
1 Cor. 6:19 Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God, and you are not your own?
1 Cor. 6:20 For you have been bought with a price. So then glorify God in your body.


1 Corinthians Chapter 7
1 Cor. 7:1 Now concerning the things of which you wrote: It is good for a man not to touch a woman.
1 Cor. 7:2 But because of fornication, let each man have his own wife, and let each woman have her own husband.
1 Cor. 7:3 Let the husband render to his wife that which is due, and likewise also the wife to the husband.
1 Cor. 7:4 The wife does not have authority over her own body, but the husband does; and likewise the husband also does not have authority over his own body, but the wife does.
1 Cor. 7:5 Do not deprive each other, except by agreement for a time that you may devote yourselves to prayer, and then be together again, that Satan may not tempt you because of your lack of self-control.
1 Cor. 7:6 But this I say by way of concession, not by way of command.
1 Cor. 7:7 Yet I wish all men to be even as I am myself; but each has his own gift from God, one in this way, the other in that.
1 Cor. 7:8 But I say to the unmarried and to the widows, It is good for them if they remain even as I am.
1 Cor. 7:9 But if they do not have self-control, let them marry; for it is better to marry than to burn with desire.
1 Cor. 7:10 But to the married I charge, not I but the Lord, A wife must not be separated from her husband
1 Cor. 7:11 (But if indeed she is separated, let her remain unmarried or be reconciled to her husband), and a husband must not leave his wife.
1 Cor. 7:12 But to the rest I say, I, not the Lord, If any brother has an unbelieving wife and she consents to dwell with him, he must not leave her;
1 Cor. 7:13 And a wife who has an unbelieving husband, and if he consents to dwell with her, must not leave her husband.
1 Cor. 7:14 For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the brother; otherwise your children are unclean, but now they are holy.
1 Cor. 7:15 But if the unbelieving one separates, let him separate; the brother or the sister is not enslaved in such cases, but God has called us in peace.
1 Cor. 7:16 For how do you know, O wife, whether you will save your husband? Or how do you know, O husband, whether you will save your wife?
1 Cor. 7:17 However as the Lord has apportioned to each one, as God has called each one, so let him walk. And so I direct in all the churches.
1 Cor. 7:18 Was anyone called having been circumcised? He need not efface it. Has anyone been called in uncircumcision? He need not be circumcised.
1 Cor. 7:19 Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing, but the keeping of God’s commandments is what counts.
1 Cor. 7:20 Each one, in the calling in which he was called, in this let him remain.
1 Cor. 7:21 Were you called as a slave? Let it not concern you; but even if you are able to become free, use your status as a slave rather.
1 Cor. 7:22 For the slave who has been called in the Lord is the Lord’s freedman; likewise the free man who has been called is Christ’s slave.
1 Cor. 7:23 You were bought with a price; do not be slaves of men.
1 Cor. 7:24 Each one, brothers, in what status he was called, in this let him remain with God.
1 Cor. 7:25 Now concerning virgins I have no commandment of the Lord, but I give my opinion as one who has been shown mercy by the Lord to be faithful.
1 Cor. 7:26 I consider then that this is good because of the present necessity, that it is good for a man to be as he is.
1 Cor. 7:27 Have you been bound to a wife? Do not seek a release. Have you been released from a wife? Do not seek a wife.
1 Cor. 7:28 But even if you do marry, you have not sinned; and if the virgin marries, she has not sinned; but such ones will have affliction in the flesh, and I am trying to spare you.
1 Cor. 7:29 But this I say, brothers, the time is shortened. Henceforth both those who have wives should be as though they had none,
1 Cor. 7:30 And those who weep as though they did not weep, and those who rejoice as though they did not rejoice, and those who buy as though they did not possess,
1 Cor. 7:31 And those who use the world as though they did not abuse it; for the fashion of this world is passing away.
1 Cor. 7:32 But I desire you to be without care. The unmarried cares for the things of the Lord, how he may please the Lord;
1 Cor. 7:33 But he who has married cares for the things of the world, how he may please his wife,
1 Cor. 7:34 And is distracted. Both the unmarried woman and the virgin care for the things of the Lord, that she may be holy both in body and in spirit; but she who has married cares for the things of the world, how she may please her husband.
1 Cor. 7:35 But this I say for your own profit, not that I may put a noose upon you but that you may be comely and may wait on the Lord without distraction.
1 Cor. 7:36 But if anyone thinks that he is behaving unbecomingly to his virgin daughter, if she is past the bloom of youth and thus it must be so, let him do what he wishes, he does not sin; let them marry.
1 Cor. 7:37 But he who stands firm in his heart, being under no constraint, and has authority with respect to his own will and has decided this in his own heart, to keep his own virgin daughter, he will do well.
1 Cor. 7:38 So then both he who gives his own virgin daughter in marriage does well, and he who does not give her in marriage will do better.
1 Cor. 7:39 A wife is bound for so long a time as her husband lives; but should the husband fall asleep, she is free to be married to whom she wishes, only to one in the Lord.
1 Cor. 7:40 But she is more blessed if she so remains, according to my opinion; but I think that I also have the Spirit of God.


1 Corinthians Chapter 8
1 Cor. 8:1 Now concerning things sacrificed to idols, we know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffs up, but love builds up.
1 Cor. 8:2 If anyone thinks that he knows anything, he has not yet come to know as he ought to know;
1 Cor. 8:3 But if anyone loves God, this one is known by Him.
1 Cor. 8:4 Therefore concerning the eating of things sacrificed to idols, we know that an idol is nothing in the world and that there is no God but one.
1 Cor. 8:5 For even if there are so-called gods, either in heaven or on earth, even as there are many gods and many lords,
1 Cor. 8:6 Yet to us there is one God, the Father, out from whom are all things, and we are unto Him; and one Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom are all things, and we are through Him.
1 Cor. 8:7 But this knowledge is not in all men; but some, being accustomed to the idol until now, eat the food as an idol sacrifice, and their conscience, being weak, is defiled.
1 Cor. 8:8 But food will not commend us to God; neither if we do not eat are we lacking, nor if we eat do we abound.
1 Cor. 8:9 But beware lest somehow this right of yours become a stumbling block to the weak ones.
1 Cor. 8:10 For if anyone sees you who have knowledge reclining at table in an idol temple, will not his conscience, if he is weak, be emboldened to eat the things sacrificed to the idols?
1 Cor. 8:11 For the one who is weak is being destroyed by your knowledge, the brother because of whom Christ died.
1 Cor. 8:12 And sinning in this way against the brothers and wounding their weak conscience, you sin against Christ.
1 Cor. 8:13 Therefore if food stumbles my brother, I shall by no means eat meat forever, that I may not stumble my brother.


1 Corinthians Chapter 9
1 Cor. 9:1 Am I not free? Am I not an apostle? Have I not seen Jesus our Lord? Are you not my work in the Lord?
1 Cor. 9:2 If to others I am not an apostle, yet surely I am to you; for you in the Lord are the seal of my apostleship.
1 Cor. 9:3 My defense to those who examine me is this.
1 Cor. 9:4 Do we not have a right to eat and to drink?
1 Cor. 9:5 Do we not have a right to take along a sister as a wife, even as the rest of the apostles and the brothers of the Lord and Cephas?
1 Cor. 9:6 Or do only I and Barnabas not have the right not to work?
1 Cor. 9:7 What soldier ever serves by his own wages? Who plants a vineyard and does not partake of its fruit? Or who shepherds a flock and does not partake of the milk of the flock?
1 Cor. 9:8 Am I speaking these things according to man? Or does the law not also say these things?
1 Cor. 9:9 For in the law of Moses it is written: “You shall not muzzle the ox while it is treading out the grain.” Is it for oxen that God cares?
1 Cor. 9:10 Or does He say it altogether for our sake? Yes, for our sake it was written because the plowman should plow in hope, and he who threshes, in hope of partaking.
1 Cor. 9:11 If we have sown to you the spiritual things, is it a great thing if we shall reap from you the fleshly things?
1 Cor. 9:12 If others partake of this right over you, should not rather we? Yet we did not use this right, but we bear all things that we may not cause any hindrance to the gospel of Christ.
1 Cor. 9:13 Do you not know that those who labor on the sacred things eat the things of the sacred temple, that those who attend to the altar have their portion with the altar?
1 Cor. 9:14 So also the Lord directed those who announce the gospel to live from the gospel.
1 Cor. 9:15 But I myself have not used any of these things; and I have not written these things that it may be so with me; for it is good for me rather to die than — No one shall make my boast void.
1 Cor. 9:16 For if I preach the gospel, I have no boast, for necessity is laid upon me; for woe to me if I do not preach the gospel.
1 Cor. 9:17 If I do this of my own will, I have a reward; but if not of my own will, I am entrusted with a stewardship.
1 Cor. 9:18 What then is my reward? That in preaching the gospel I may present the gospel without charge, so as not to use to the full my right in the gospel.
1 Cor. 9:19 For though I am free from all, I have enslaved myself to all that I might gain the more.
1 Cor. 9:20 And to the Jews I became as a Jew in order that I might gain Jews; to those under law, as under law (though I myself am not under law), that I might gain those under law.
1 Cor. 9:21 To those without law, as without law (though I am not without law to God but within law to Christ), that I might gain those without law.
1 Cor. 9:22 To the weak I became weak that I might gain the weak. To all men I have become all things that I might by all means save some.
1 Cor. 9:23 And I do all things for the sake of the gospel that I may become a fellow partaker of it.
1 Cor. 9:24 Do you not know that those who run on a racecourse all run, but one receives the prize? Run in this way, that you may lay hold.
1 Cor. 9:25 And everyone who contends exercises self-control in all things; they then, that they may receive a corruptible crown, but we, an incorruptible.
1 Cor. 9:26 I therefore run in this way, not as though without a clear aim; I box in this way, not as though beating the air;
1 Cor. 9:27 But I buffet my body and make it my slave, lest perhaps having preached to others, I myself may become disapproved.


1 Corinthians Chapter 10
1 Cor. 10:1 For I do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, that all our fathers were under the cloud, and all passed through the sea;
1 Cor. 10:2 And all were baptized unto Moses in the cloud and in the sea;
1 Cor. 10:3 And all ate the same spiritual food,
1 Cor. 10:4 And all drank the same spiritual drink; for they drank of a spiritual rock which followed them, and the rock was Christ.
1 Cor. 10:5 But with most of them God was not well pleased, for they were strewn along in the wilderness.
1 Cor. 10:6 Now these things occurred as examples to us, that we should not be ones who lust after evil things, even as they also lusted.
1 Cor. 10:7 Neither become idolaters, as some of them did; as it is written, “The people sat down to eat and drink, and stood up to play.”
1 Cor. 10:8 Neither let us commit fornication, as some of them committed fornication, and there fell in one day twenty-three thousand.
1 Cor. 10:9 Neither let us test Christ, as some of them tested Him and were destroyed by the serpents.
1 Cor. 10:10 Neither murmur, just as some of them murmured and perished by the destroyer.
1 Cor. 10:11 Now these things happened to them as an example, and they were written for our admonition, unto whom the ends of the ages have come.
1 Cor. 10:12 So then let him who thinks he stands take heed lest he fall.
1 Cor. 10:13 No temptation has taken you except that which is common to man; and God is faithful, who will not allow that you be tempted beyond what you are able, but will, with the temptation, also make the way out, that you may be able to endure it.
1 Cor. 10:14 Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry.
1 Cor. 10:15 I speak as to prudent men; you judge what I say.
1 Cor. 10:16 The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not the fellowship of the blood of Christ? The bread which we break, is it not the fellowship of the body of Christ?
1 Cor. 10:17 Seeing that there is one bread, we who are many are one Body; for we all partake of the one bread.
1 Cor. 10:18 Look at Israel according to the flesh. Are not those who eat the sacrifices those who have fellowship with the altar?
1 Cor. 10:19 What then am I saying? That what is sacrificed to an idol is anything? Or that an idol is anything?
1 Cor. 10:20 No, but that the things which the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to demons and not to God; and I do not want you to become those who have fellowship with demons.
1 Cor. 10:21 You cannot drink the Lord’s cup and the demons’ cup; you cannot partake of the Lord’s table and of the demons’ table.
1 Cor. 10:22 Or do we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than He?
1 Cor. 10:23 All things are lawful, but not all things are profitable; all things are lawful, but not all things build up.
1 Cor. 10:24 Let no one seek his own profit, but that of the other.
1 Cor. 10:25 Everything sold in a meat market eat, asking no question for conscience’ sake;
1 Cor. 10:26 For the earth is the Lord’s and the fullness thereof.
1 Cor. 10:27 If any of the unbelievers invites you and you wish to go, eat everything that is set before you, asking no question for conscience’ sake.
1 Cor. 10:28 But if anyone says to you, This has been offered in sacrifice, do not eat, for his sake who pointed it out and for conscience’ sake.
1 Cor. 10:29 Conscience, I say, not your own, but the other’s. For why is my freedom judged by some other conscience?
1 Cor. 10:30 If I partake with thankfulness, why am I spoken evil of concerning that for which I give thanks?
1 Cor. 10:31 Therefore whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God.
1 Cor. 10:32 Do not become a stumbling block, both to Jews and to Greeks and to the church of God;
1 Cor. 10:33 Even as I also please all men in all things, not seeking my own advantage but that of the many, that they may be saved.


1 Corinthians Chapter 11
1 Cor. 11:1 Be imitators of me, as I also am of Christ.
1 Cor. 11:2 But I praise you because in all things you have remembered me and hold fast the things that I have handed down even as I handed them down to you.
1 Cor. 11:3 But I want you to know that Christ is the head of every man, and the man is the head of the woman, and God is the head of Christ.
1 Cor. 11:4 Every man praying or prophesying with his head covered disgraces his head.
1 Cor. 11:5 But every woman praying or prophesying with her head uncovered disgraces her head; for it is one and the same as she who is shaved.
1 Cor. 11:6 For if a woman is not covered, let her hair also be cut off; but if it is shameful for a woman to have her hair cut off or to be shaved, let her be covered.
1 Cor. 11:7 For a man ought not to have his head covered, since he is God’s image and glory; but the woman is the glory of the man.
1 Cor. 11:8 For man is not out of woman, but woman out of man;
1 Cor. 11:9 For also man was not created for the sake of the woman, but woman for the sake of the man.
1 Cor. 11:10 Therefore the woman ought to have a sign of submission to authority on her head for the sake of the angels.
1 Cor. 11:11 However neither is woman without man, nor man without woman, in the Lord.
1 Cor. 11:12 For just as the woman is out from the man, so also is the man through the woman; but all things are out from God.
1 Cor. 11:13 Judge this in your own selves: Is it fitting for a woman to pray uncovered to God?
1 Cor. 11:14 Does not even nature itself teach you that if a man has long hair, it is a dishonor to him,
1 Cor. 11:15 But if a woman has long hair, it is a glory to her? For her long hair has been given to her for a covering.
1 Cor. 11:16 But if anyone seems to be contentious, we do not have such a custom of being so, neither the churches of God.
1 Cor. 11:17 But I give you this charge and do not praise you, because you come together not for the better but for the worse.
1 Cor. 11:18 For first of all, when you come together in the church, I hear that divisions exist among you; and some part of it I believe.
1 Cor. 11:19 For there must even be parties among you, that those who are approved may become manifest among you.
1 Cor. 11:20 When therefore you come together in the same place, it is not to eat the Lord’s supper;
1 Cor. 11:21 For in your eating, each one takes his own supper first, and one is hungry and the other is drunk.
1 Cor. 11:22 Do you not have houses to eat and drink in? Or do you despise the church of God and put those to shame who have not? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you? In this I do not praise you.
1 Cor. 11:23 For I received from the Lord that which also I delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus in the night in which He was betrayed took bread,
1 Cor. 11:24 And having given thanks, He broke it and said, This is My body, which is given for you; this do unto the remembrance of Me.
1 Cor. 11:25 Similarly also the cup after they had dined, saying, This cup is the new covenant established in My blood; this do, as often as you drink it, unto the remembrance of Me.
1 Cor. 11:26 For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you declare the Lord’s death until He comes.
1 Cor. 11:27 So then whoever eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of the body and of the blood of the Lord.
1 Cor. 11:28 But let a man prove himself, and in this way let him eat of the bread and drink of the cup.
1 Cor. 11:29 For he who eats and drinks, eats and drinks judgment to himself if he does not discern the body.
1 Cor. 11:30 Because of this many among you are weak and sick, and a number sleep.
1 Cor. 11:31 But if we discerned ourselves, we would not be judged.
1 Cor. 11:32 But being judged by the Lord, we are disciplined that we may not be condemned with the world.
1 Cor. 11:33 So then, my brothers, when you come together to eat, wait for one another.
1 Cor. 11:34 If anyone is hungry, let him eat at home, that you may not come together for judgment. And the rest I will set in order when I come.


1 Corinthians Chapter 12
1 Cor. 12:1 Now concerning spiritual gifts, brothers, I do not want you to be ignorant.
1 Cor. 12:2 You know that when you were Gentiles, you were always being led away to dumb idols, whenever and however you were led.
1 Cor. 12:3 Therefore I make known to you that no one speaking in the Spirit of God says, Jesus is accursed; and no one can say, Jesus is Lord! except in the Holy Spirit.
1 Cor. 12:4 But there are distinctions of gifts, but the same Spirit;
1 Cor. 12:5 And there are distinctions of ministries, yet the same Lord;
1 Cor. 12:6 And there are distinctions of operations, but the same God, who operates all things in all.
1 Cor. 12:7 But to each one is given the manifestation of the Spirit for what is profitable.
1 Cor. 12:8 For to one through the Spirit a word of wisdom is given, and to another a word of knowledge, according to the same Spirit;
1 Cor. 12:9 To a different one faith in the same Spirit, and to another gifts of healing in the one Spirit,
1 Cor. 12:10 And to another operations of works of power, and to another prophecy, and to another discerning of spirits; to a different one various kinds of tongues, and to another interpretation of tongues.
1 Cor. 12:11 But the one and the same Spirit operates all these things, distributing to each one respectively even as He purposes.
1 Cor. 12:12 For even as the body is one and has many members, yet all the members of the body, being many, are one body, so also is the Christ.
1 Cor. 12:13 For also in one Spirit we were all baptized into one Body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves or free, and were all given to drink one Spirit.
1 Cor. 12:14 For the body is not one member but many.
1 Cor. 12:15 If the foot should say, Because I am not a hand, I am not of the body, it is not that because of this it is not of the body.
1 Cor. 12:16 And if the ear should say, Because I am not an eye, I am not of the body, it is not that because of this it is not of the body.
1 Cor. 12:17 If the whole body were an eye, where would the hearing be? If the whole were the hearing, where would the smelling be?
1 Cor. 12:18 But now God has placed the members, each one of them, in the body, even as He willed.
1 Cor. 12:19 And if all were one member, where would the body be?
1 Cor. 12:20 But now the members are many, but the body one.
1 Cor. 12:21 And the eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of you; nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of you.
1 Cor. 12:22 But much rather the members of the body which seem to be weaker are necessary.
1 Cor. 12:23 And those members of the body which we consider to be less honorable, these we clothe with more abundant honor; and our uncomely members come to have more abundant comeliness,
1 Cor. 12:24 But our comely members have no need. But God has blended the body together, giving more abundant honor to the member that lacked,
1 Cor. 12:25 That there would be no division in the body, but that the members would have the same care for one another.
1 Cor. 12:26 And whether one member suffers, all the members suffer with it; or one member is glorified, all the members rejoice with it.
1 Cor. 12:27 Now you are the Body of Christ, and members individually.
1 Cor. 12:28 And God has placed some in the church: first apostles, second prophets, third teachers; then works of power, then gifts of healing, helps, administrations, various kinds of tongues.
1 Cor. 12:29 Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Do all have works of power?
1 Cor. 12:30 Do all have gifts of healing? Do all speak in tongues? Do all interpret tongues?
1 Cor. 12:31 But earnestly desire the greater gifts. And moreover I show to you a most excellent way.


1 Corinthians Chapter 13
1 Cor. 13:1 If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels but do not have love, I have become sounding brass or a clanging cymbal.
1 Cor. 13:2 And if I have the gift of prophecy and know all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith so as to remove mountains, but do not have love, I am nothing.
1 Cor. 13:3 And if I dole out all my possessions to feed others, and if I deliver up my body that I may boast, but do not have love, I profit nothing.
1 Cor. 13:4 Love suffers long. Love is kind; it is not jealous. Love does not brag and is not puffed up;
1 Cor. 13:5 It does not behave unbecomingly and does not seek its own things; it is not provoked and does not take account of evil;
1 Cor. 13:6 It does not rejoice because of unrighteousness, but rejoices with the truth;
1 Cor. 13:7 It covers all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things.
1 Cor. 13:8 Love never falls away. But whether prophecies, they will be rendered useless; or tongues, they will cease; or knowledge, it will be rendered useless.
1 Cor. 13:9 For we know in part, and we prophesy in part;
1 Cor. 13:10 But when that which is complete comes, that which is in part will be rendered useless.
1 Cor. 13:11 When I was a child, I spoke as a child, I thought as a child, I reasoned as a child; since I have become a man, I have done away with childish things.
1 Cor. 13:12 For now we see in a mirror obscurely, but at that time face to face; now I know in part, but at that time I will fully know even as also I was fully known.
1 Cor. 13:13 Now there abide faith, hope, love, these three; and the greatest of these is love.


1 Corinthians Chapter 14
1 Cor. 14:1 Pursue love, and desire earnestly spiritual gifts, but especially that you may prophesy.
1 Cor. 14:2 For he who speaks in a tongue does not speak to men but to God; for no one hears, but in his spirit he speaks mysteries.
1 Cor. 14:3 But he who prophesies speaks building up and encouragement and consolation to men.
1 Cor. 14:4 He who speaks in a tongue builds up himself, but he who prophesies builds up the church.
1 Cor. 14:5 I desire that you all speak in tongues, but especially that you would prophesy; and greater is he who prophesies than he who speaks in tongues, unless he interprets, that the church may receive building up.
1 Cor. 14:6 But now, brothers, if I come to you speaking in tongues, what will I profit you, unless I speak to you either in revelation or in knowledge or in prophecy or in teaching?
1 Cor. 14:7 Yet even lifeless things, whether flute or harp, in giving a sound, if they give no distinction in the tones, how will what is played on the flute or on the harp be known?
1 Cor. 14:8 For also if the trumpet gives an uncertain sound, who will prepare himself for battle?
1 Cor. 14:9 So also you, unless you give with the tongue a word easy to understand, how will what is being said be known? For you will be speaking into the air.
1 Cor. 14:10 There are perhaps many kinds of voices in the world, and not one is without significance.
1 Cor. 14:11 If then I do not know the meaning of the voice, I will be to him who is speaking a barbarian, and he who is speaking a barbarian to me.
1 Cor. 14:12 So also you, since you are zealous of spirits, seek that you may excel for the building up of the church.
1 Cor. 14:13 Therefore let him who speaks in a tongue pray that he may interpret.
1 Cor. 14:14 For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays, but my mind is unfruitful.
1 Cor. 14:15 What then? I will pray with the spirit, and I will pray also with the mind; I will sing with the spirit, and I will sing also with the mind.
1 Cor. 14:16 Otherwise if you bless with the spirit, how shall he who fills the place of the unlearned in tongues say the Amen at your giving of thanks, since he does not know what you are saying?
1 Cor. 14:17 For you give thanks well, but the other is not built up.
1 Cor. 14:18 I thank God, I speak in tongues more than all of you,
1 Cor. 14:19 But in the church I would rather speak five words with my mind, that I might instruct others also, than ten thousand words in a tongue.
1 Cor. 14:20 Brothers, do not be children in your understanding, but in malice be babes and in your understanding be full-grown.
1 Cor. 14:21 In the law it is written, “By those of other tongues and with the lips of others I will speak to this people; even so they will not listen to Me, says the Lord.”
1 Cor. 14:22 So then tongues are for a sign, not to those who believe but to the unbelievers; but prophecy is for a sign not to the unbelievers but to those who believe.
1 Cor. 14:23 If therefore the whole church comes together in one place, and all speak in tongues, and some unlearned in tongues or unbelievers enter, will they not say that you are insane?
1 Cor. 14:24 But if all prophesy and some unbeliever or unlearned person enters, he is convicted by all, he is examined by all;
1 Cor. 14:25 The secrets of his heart become manifest; and so falling on his face, he will worship God, declaring that indeed God is among you.
1 Cor. 14:26 What then, brothers? Whenever you come together, each one has a psalm, has a teaching, has a revelation, has a tongue, has an interpretation. Let all things be done for building up.
1 Cor. 14:27 If anyone speaks in a tongue, it should be by two, or at the most three, and in turn, and one should interpret;
1 Cor. 14:28 But if there is no interpreter, he should be silent in the church, and speak to himself and to God.
1 Cor. 14:29 And as to prophets, two or three should speak, and the others discern.
1 Cor. 14:30 But if something is revealed to another sitting by, the first should be silent.
1 Cor. 14:31 For you can all prophesy one by one that all may learn and all may be encouraged.
1 Cor. 14:32 And the spirits of prophets are subject to prophets;
1 Cor. 14:33 For God is not a God of confusion but of peace. As in all the churches of the saints,
1 Cor. 14:34 The women should be silent in the churches, for they are not permitted to speak; but they should be subject, even as the law also says.
1 Cor. 14:35 But if they desire to learn anything, they should ask their own husbands at home; for it is a shame for a woman to speak in the church.
1 Cor. 14:36 Or was it from you that the word of God went forth? Or did it reach only to you?
1 Cor. 14:37 If anyone thinks he is a prophet or spiritual, let him fully know the things which I write to you, that they are the commandment of the Lord.
1 Cor. 14:38 But if anyone ignores this, let him ignore it.
1 Cor. 14:39 So then, my brothers, desire earnestly the prophesying, and do not forbid the speaking in tongues.
1 Cor. 14:40 But all things must be done becomingly and in order.


1 Corinthians Chapter 15
1 Cor. 15:1 Now I make known to you, brothers, the gospel which I announced to you, which also you received, in which also you stand,
1 Cor. 15:2 Through which also you are being saved, if you hold fast the word which I announced to you as the gospel, unless you have believed in vain.
1 Cor. 15:3 For I delivered to you, first of all, that which also I received, that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures;
1 Cor. 15:4 And that He was buried, and that He has been raised on the third day according to the Scriptures;
1 Cor. 15:5 And that He appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve;
1 Cor. 15:6 Then He appeared to over five hundred brothers at one time, of whom the majority remain until now, but some have fallen asleep;
1 Cor. 15:7 Then He appeared to James, then to all the apostles;
1 Cor. 15:8 And last of all He appeared to me also, as it were to one born prematurely.
1 Cor. 15:9 For I am the least of the apostles, who am not fit to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
1 Cor. 15:10 But by the grace of God I am what I am; and His grace unto me did not turn out to be in vain, but, on the contrary, I labored more abundantly than all of them, yet not I but the grace of God which is with me.
1 Cor. 15:11 Therefore whether it is I or they, so we preach and so you have believed.
1 Cor. 15:12 But if Christ is proclaimed that He has been raised from the dead, how is it that some among you say that there is no resurrection of the dead?
1 Cor. 15:13 But if there is no resurrection of the dead, neither has Christ been raised.
1 Cor. 15:14 And if Christ has not been raised, then our proclamation is vain; your faith is vain also.
1 Cor. 15:15 And also we are found to be false witnesses of God because we have testified concerning God that He raised Christ, whom He did not raise, if indeed the dead are not raised.
1 Cor. 15:16 For if the dead are not raised, neither has Christ been raised.
1 Cor. 15:17 And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile; you are still in your sins.
1 Cor. 15:18 Then also those who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished.
1 Cor. 15:19 If it is only that we have hoped in Christ in this life, we are of all men most miserable.
1 Cor. 15:20 But now Christ has been raised from the dead, the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep.
1 Cor. 15:21 For since through man came death, through man also came the resurrection of the dead.
1 Cor. 15:22 For just as in Adam all die, so also in Christ all will be made alive.
1 Cor. 15:23 But each one in his own order: the firstfruits, Christ; then those who are Christ’s at His coming;
1 Cor. 15:24 Then the end, when He delivers up the kingdom to His God and Father, once He has abolished all rule and all authority and power.
1 Cor. 15:25 For He must reign until God puts all His enemies under His feet.
1 Cor. 15:26 Death, the last enemy, is being abolished.
1 Cor. 15:27 For He has subjected all things under His feet. But when He says that all things are subjected, it is evident that all things are except Him who has subjected all things to Him.
1 Cor. 15:28 And when all things have been subjected to Him, then the Son Himself also will be subjected to Him who has subjected all things to Him, that God may be all in all.
1 Cor. 15:29 Otherwise what shall they who are baptized for the dead do? If the dead are actually not raised, why then are they baptized for them?
1 Cor. 15:30 Why also do we brave danger every hour?
1 Cor. 15:31 I protest by the boasting in you, brothers, which I have in Christ Jesus our Lord, I die daily.
1 Cor. 15:32 If after the manner of men I fought with wild beasts at Ephesus, what does it profit me? If the dead are not raised, let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die.
1 Cor. 15:33 Do not be deceived: Evil companionships corrupt good morals.
1 Cor. 15:34 Awake from the drunken stupor righteously and do not sin, for some of you are ignorant of God. I speak to your shame.
1 Cor. 15:35 But someone will say, How are the dead raised? And with what kind of body do they come?
1 Cor. 15:36 Foolish man, what you sow is not made alive unless it dies;
1 Cor. 15:37 And what you sow, you do not sow the body that will be, but a bare grain, perhaps of wheat or of some other of the rest.
1 Cor. 15:38 But God gives it a body even as He willed, and to each of the seeds its own body.
1 Cor. 15:39 All flesh is not the same flesh, but one is of men, and another flesh is of cattle, and another is of birds, and another is of fish.
1 Cor. 15:40 There are also heavenly bodies and earthly bodies; but the glory of the heavenly is one thing, and that of the earthly is another.
1 Cor. 15:41 There is another glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars; for star differs from star in glory.
1 Cor. 15:42 So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption, it is raised in incorruption;
1 Cor. 15:43 It is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory; it is sown in weakness, it is raised in power;
1 Cor. 15:44 It is sown a soulish body, it is raised a spiritual body. If there is a soulish body, there is also a spiritual one.
1 Cor. 15:45 So also it is written, “The first man, Adam, became a living soul”; the last Adam became a life-giving Spirit.
1 Cor. 15:46 But the spiritual is not first but the soulish, then the spiritual:
1 Cor. 15:47 The first man is out of the earth, earthy; the second man is out of heaven.
1 Cor. 15:48 As the earthy is, such are they also that are earthy; and as the heavenly is, such are they also that are heavenly.
1 Cor. 15:49 And even as we have borne the image of the earthy, we will also bear the image of the heavenly.
1 Cor. 15:50 Now this I say, brothers, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, neither does corruption inherit incorruption.
1 Cor. 15:51 Behold, I tell you a mystery: We will not all sleep, but we will all be changed,
1 Cor. 15:52 In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet; for the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised incorruptible, and we will be changed.
1 Cor. 15:53 For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality.
1 Cor. 15:54 And when this corruptible will put on incorruption and this mortal will put on immortality, then the word which is written will come to pass, “Death has been swallowed up unto victory.”
1 Cor. 15:55 Where, O death, is your victory? Where, O death, is your sting?
1 Cor. 15:56 The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law.
1 Cor. 15:57 But thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.
1 Cor. 15:58 Therefore, my beloved brothers, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in the Lord.


1 Corinthians Chapter 16
1 Cor. 16:1 Now concerning the collection for the saints, just as I directed the churches of Galatia, so you also do.
1 Cor. 16:2 On the first day of the week each one of you should lay aside in store to himself whatever he may have been prospered, that no collections be made when I come.
1 Cor. 16:3 And when I arrive, whomever you approve, I will send them with letters to carry your gift to Jerusalem;
1 Cor. 16:4 And if it is fitting for me also to go, they will go with me.
1 Cor. 16:5 Now I will come to you when I pass through Macedonia, for I will pass through Macedonia.
1 Cor. 16:6 And perhaps I will stay with you, or even spend the winter, that you may send me forward wherever I may go.
1 Cor. 16:7 For I do not wish to see you now just in passing, for I am hoping to remain with you for some time, if the Lord permits.
1 Cor. 16:8 But I will remain in Ephesus until Pentecost,
1 Cor. 16:9 For a door is opened to me, great and efficacious, and there are many opposers.
1 Cor. 16:10 Now if Timothy comes, see that he is with you without fear; for he is working the work of the Lord, even as I am.
1 Cor. 16:11 Let no one therefore despise him, but send him forward in peace that he may come to me; for I am awaiting him with the brothers.
1 Cor. 16:12 And concerning our brother Apollos, I urged him many times to come to you with the brothers; yet it was not at all his desire to come now, but he will come when he has opportunity.
1 Cor. 16:13 Watch, stand firm in the faith, be full-grown men, be strong.
1 Cor. 16:14 Let all your matters be done in love.
1 Cor. 16:15 Now I exhort you, brothers: You know the household of Stephanas, that it is the firstfruits of Achaia, and they have set themselves to minister to the saints;
1 Cor. 16:16 You also be subject to such ones, and to everyone co-working and laboring.
1 Cor. 16:17 Now I rejoice at the coming of Stephanas and Fortunatus and Achaicus, because these have filled up the lack caused by your absence;
1 Cor. 16:18 For they refreshed my spirit and yours. Acknowledge therefore such ones.
1 Cor. 16:19 The churches of Asia greet you. Aquila and Prisca greet you much in the Lord, with the church, which is in their house.
1 Cor. 16:20 All the brothers greet you. Greet one another with a holy kiss.
1 Cor. 16:21 The greeting in my own hand — Paul.
1 Cor. 16:22 If anyone does not love the Lord, let him be accursed! The Lord comes!
1 Cor. 16:23 The grace of the Lord Jesus be with you.
1 Cor. 16:24 My love in Christ Jesus be with you all.


The Second Epistle of Paul to the Corinthians
Subject:
The New Covenant Ministry and Its Ministers 
2 Corinthians Chapter 1
2 Cor. 1:1 Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God, and Timothy the brother, to the church of God which is in Corinth, with all the saints who are in the whole of Achaia:
2 Cor. 1:2 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
2 Cor. 1:3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of compassions and God of all comfort,
2 Cor. 1:4 Who comforts us in all our affliction that we may be able to comfort those who are in every affliction through the comforting with which we ourselves are comforted by God.
2 Cor. 1:5 For even as the sufferings of the Christ abound unto us, so through the Christ our comfort also abounds.
2 Cor. 1:6 But whether we are afflicted, it is for your comforting and salvation; or whether we are comforted, it is for your comforting, which operates in the endurance of the same sufferings which we also suffer.
2 Cor. 1:7 And our hope for you is firm, knowing that as you are partakers of the sufferings, so also you are of the comfort.
2 Cor. 1:8 For we do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, of our affliction which befell us in Asia, that we were excessively burdened, beyond our power, so that we despaired even of living.
2 Cor. 1:9 Indeed we ourselves had the response of death in ourselves, that we should not base our confidence on ourselves but on God, who raises the dead;
2 Cor. 1:10 Who has delivered us out of so great a death, and will deliver us; in whom we have hoped that He will also yet deliver us,
2 Cor. 1:11 If you also help in this by petition on our behalf, that for the gift to us through many, thanks may be given by many persons on our behalf.
2 Cor. 1:12 For our boasting is this, the testimony of our conscience, that in singleness and sincerity of God, not in fleshly wisdom but in the grace of God, we have conducted ourselves in the world, and more abundantly toward you.
2 Cor. 1:13 For no other things do we write to you than what you read or even know; and I hope that you will know unto the end,
2 Cor. 1:14 Even as also you know us in part, that we are your boast, just as you also are ours in the day of our Lord Jesus.
2 Cor. 1:15 And in this confidence I intended to come to you previously that you might have double grace,
2 Cor. 1:16 And through you to pass through into Macedonia, and again from Macedonia to come to you and be sent forward by you into Judea.
2 Cor. 1:17 This therefore intending, did I then use fickleness? Or the things which I purpose, do I purpose according to the flesh, so that with me there should be Yes, yes and No, no?
2 Cor. 1:18 But as God is faithful, our word toward you is not yes and no.
2 Cor. 1:19 For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who was preached among you through us, through me and Silvanus and Timothy, did not become yes and no, but our word has become yes in Him.
2 Cor. 1:20 For as many promises of God as there are, in Him is the Yes; therefore also through Him is the Amen to God, for glory through us to God.
2 Cor. 1:21 But the One who firmly attaches us with you unto Christ and has anointed us is God,
2 Cor. 1:22 He who has also sealed us and given the Spirit in our hearts as a pledge.
2 Cor. 1:23 But I call on God as a witness against my soul that to spare you I have not yet come to Corinth.
2 Cor. 1:24 Not that we lord it over your faith, but we are fellow workers with you for your joy; for by faith you stand.


2 Corinthians Chapter 2
2 Cor. 2:1 But I determined this for myself, that I would not come again to you in sorrow.
2 Cor. 2:2 For if I cause you sorrow, who then is the one who makes me glad, except the one who is made sorrowful by me?
2 Cor. 2:3 And I wrote this very thing to you that when I come I would not have sorrow from those who ought to make me rejoice, having confidence in you all that my joy is the joy of you all.
2 Cor. 2:4 For out of much affliction and anguish of heart I wrote to you through many tears, not that you would be made sorrowful but that you would know the love which I have more abundantly toward you.
2 Cor. 2:5 But if anyone has caused sorrow, he has not caused me to sorrow, but in part (lest I lay too heavy a burden) all of you.
2 Cor. 2:6 Sufficient for such a one is this punishment by the majority,
2 Cor. 2:7 So that on the contrary you should rather forgive and comfort him, lest perhaps such a one be swallowed up with excessive sorrow.
2 Cor. 2:8 Therefore I exhort you to confirm your love toward him.
2 Cor. 2:9 For to this end also I wrote, that I might know your approvedness, whether you are obedient in all things.
2 Cor. 2:10 But whom you forgive anything, I also forgive; for also what I have forgiven, if I have forgiven anything, it is for your sake in the person of Christ;
2 Cor. 2:11 That we may not be taken advantage of by Satan, for we are not ignorant of his schemes.
2 Cor. 2:12 Furthermore, when I came to Troas for the gospel of Christ and a door was open to me in the Lord,
2 Cor. 2:13 I had no rest in my spirit, for I did not find Titus my brother; but taking leave of them, I went forth into Macedonia.
2 Cor. 2:14 But thanks be to God, who always leads us in triumph in the Christ and manifests the savor of the knowledge of Him through us in every place.
2 Cor. 2:15 For we are a fragrance of Christ to God in those who are being saved and in those who are perishing:
2 Cor. 2:16 To some a savor out of death unto death, and to the others a savor out of life unto life. And who is sufficient for these things?
2 Cor. 2:17 For we are not like the many, adulterating the word of God for profit; but as out of sincerity, but as out of God, before God we speak in Christ.


2 Corinthians Chapter 3
2 Cor. 3:1 Are we beginning again to commend ourselves? Or do we need, as some do, letters of commendation to you or from you?
2 Cor. 3:2 You are our letter, inscribed in our hearts, known and read by all men,
2 Cor. 3:3 Since you are being manifested that you are a letter of Christ ministered by us, inscribed not with ink but with the Spirit of the living God; not in tablets of stone but in tablets of hearts of flesh.
2 Cor. 3:4 And such confidence we have through Christ toward God,
2 Cor. 3:5 Not that we are sufficient of ourselves to account anything as from ourselves; but our sufficiency is from God,
2 Cor. 3:6 Who has also made us sufficient as ministers of a new covenant, ministers not of the letter but of the Spirit; for the letter kills, but the Spirit gives life.
2 Cor. 3:7 Moreover if the ministry of death, engraved in stone in letters, came about in glory, so that the sons of Israel were not able to gaze at the face of Moses because of the glory of his face, a glory which was being done away with,
2 Cor. 3:8 How shall the ministry of the Spirit not be more in glory?
2 Cor. 3:9 For if there is glory with the ministry of condemnation, much more the ministry of righteousness abounds with glory.
2 Cor. 3:10 For also that which has been glorified in this respect has not been glorified on account of the surpassing glory.
2 Cor. 3:11 For if that which was being done away with was through glory, much more that which remains is in glory.
2 Cor. 3:12 Therefore since we have such hope, we use much boldness,
2 Cor. 3:13 And are not like Moses, who put a veil on his face so that the sons of Israel would not gaze at the end of that which was being done away with.
2 Cor. 3:14 But their thoughts were hardened; for until the present day the same veil remains at the reading of the old covenant, it not being unveiled to them that the veil is being done away with in Christ.
2 Cor. 3:15 Indeed unto this day, whenever Moses is read, a veil lies on their heart;
2 Cor. 3:16 But whenever their heart turns to the Lord, the veil is taken away.
2 Cor. 3:17 And the Lord is the Spirit; and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom.
2 Cor. 3:18 But we all with unveiled face, beholding and reflecting like a mirror the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from glory to glory, even as from the Lord Spirit.


2 Corinthians Chapter 4
2 Cor. 4:1 Therefore having this ministry as we have been shown mercy, we do not lose heart;
2 Cor. 4:2 But we have renounced the hidden things of shame, not walking in craftiness nor adulterating the word of God, but by the manifestation of the truth commending ourselves to every conscience of men before God.
2 Cor. 4:3 And even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled in those who are perishing,
2 Cor. 4:4 In whom the god of this age has blinded the thoughts of the unbelievers that the illumination of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God, might not shine on them.
2 Cor. 4:5 For we do not preach ourselves but Christ Jesus as Lord, and ourselves as your slaves for Jesus’ sake.
2 Cor. 4:6 Because the God who said, Out of darkness light shall shine, is the One who shined in our hearts to illuminate the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ.
2 Cor. 4:7 But we have this treasure in earthen vessels that the excellency of the power may be of God and not out of us.
2 Cor. 4:8 We are pressed on every side but not constricted; unable to find a way out but not utterly without a way out;
2 Cor. 4:9 Persecuted but not abandoned; cast down but not destroyed;
2 Cor. 4:10 Always bearing about in the body the putting to death of Jesus that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our body.
2 Cor. 4:11 For we who are alive are always being delivered unto death for Jesus’ sake that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our mortal flesh.
2 Cor. 4:12 So then death operates in us, but life in you.
2 Cor. 4:13 And having the same spirit of faith according to that which is written, “I believed, therefore I spoke,” we also believe, therefore we also speak,
2 Cor. 4:14 Knowing that He who raised the Lord Jesus will raise us also with Jesus and will make us stand before Him with you.
2 Cor. 4:15 For all things are for your sakes that the grace which has abounded through the greater number may cause the thanksgiving to abound to the glory of God.
2 Cor. 4:16 Therefore we do not lose heart; but though our outer man is decaying, yet our inner man is being renewed day by day.
2 Cor. 4:17 For our momentary lightness of affliction works out for us, more and more surpassingly, an eternal weight of glory,
2 Cor. 4:18 Because we do not regard the things which are seen but the things which are not seen; for the things which are seen are temporary, but the things which are not seen are eternal.


2 Corinthians Chapter 5
2 Cor. 5:1 For we know that if our earthly tabernacle dwelling is taken down, we have a building from God, a dwelling not made with hands, eternal, in the heavens.
2 Cor. 5:2 For also in this we groan, longing to be clothed upon with our dwelling place from heaven,
2 Cor. 5:3 If indeed, being clothed, we will not be found naked.
2 Cor. 5:4 For also, we who are in this tabernacle groan, being burdened, in that we do not desire to be unclothed, but clothed upon, that what is mortal may be swallowed up by life.
2 Cor. 5:5 Now He who has wrought us for this very thing is God, who has given to us the Spirit as a pledge.
2 Cor. 5:6 Therefore being always of good courage and knowing that while we are at home in the body, we are abroad from the Lord
2 Cor. 5:7 (For we walk by faith, not by appearance) —
2 Cor. 5:8 We are of good courage then and are well pleased rather to be abroad from the body and at home with the Lord.
2 Cor. 5:9 Therefore also we are determined, whether at home or abroad, to gain the honor of being well pleasing to Him.
2 Cor. 5:10 For we must all be manifested before the judgment seat of Christ, that each one may receive the things done through the body according to what he has practiced, whether good or bad.
2 Cor. 5:11 Knowing therefore the fear of the Lord, we persuade men, but we are made manifest to God; yet I hope that we are made manifest also in your consciences.
2 Cor. 5:12 We are not again commending ourselves to you, but so speak in order to give you an opportunity to boast on our behalf, that you may have an answer for those who are boasting in outward appearance and not in heart.
2 Cor. 5:13 For whether we were beside ourselves, it was to God; or whether we are sober-minded, it is for you.
2 Cor. 5:14 For the love of Christ constrains us because we have judged this, that One died for all, therefore all died;
2 Cor. 5:15 And He died for all that those who live may no longer live to themselves but to Him who died for them and has been raised.
2 Cor. 5:16 So then we, from now on, know no one according to the flesh; even though we have known Christ according to the flesh, yet now we know Him so no longer.
2 Cor. 5:17 So then if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old things have passed away; behold, they have become new.
2 Cor. 5:18 But all things are out from God, who has reconciled us to Himself through Christ and has given to us the ministry of reconciliation;
2 Cor. 5:19 Namely, that God in Christ was reconciling the world to Himself, not accounting their offenses to them, and has put in us the word of reconciliation.
2 Cor. 5:20 On behalf of Christ then we are ambassadors, as God entreats you through us; we beseech you on behalf of Christ, Be reconciled to God.
2 Cor. 5:21 Him who did not know sin He made sin on our behalf that we might become the righteousness of God in Him.


2 Corinthians Chapter 6
2 Cor. 6:1 And working together with Him, we also entreat you not to receive the grace of God in vain;
2 Cor. 6:2 For He says, “In an acceptable time I listened to you, and in the day of salvation I helped you.” Behold, now is the well-acceptable time; behold, now is the day of salvation.
2 Cor. 6:3 We give no occasion of stumbling in anything that the ministry may not be faulted,
2 Cor. 6:4 But in everything we commend ourselves as ministers of God, in much endurance, in afflictions, in necessities, in distresses,
2 Cor. 6:5 In stripes, in imprisonments, in tumults, in labors, in watchings, in fastings;
2 Cor. 6:6 In pureness, in knowledge, in long-suffering, in kindness, in a holy spirit, in unfeigned love,
2 Cor. 6:7 In the word of truth, in the power of God; through the weapons of righteousness on the right and on the left,
2 Cor. 6:8 Through glory and dishonor, through evil report and good report; as deceivers and yet true;
2 Cor. 6:9 As unknown and yet well known; as dying and yet behold we live; as being disciplined and yet not being put to death;
2 Cor. 6:10 As made sorrowful yet always rejoicing; as poor yet enriching many; as having nothing and yet possessing all things.
2 Cor. 6:11 Our mouth is opened to you, Corinthians; our heart is enlarged.
2 Cor. 6:12 You are not constricted in us, but you are constricted in your inward parts.
2 Cor. 6:13 But for a recompense in kind, I speak as to children, you also be enlarged.
2 Cor. 6:14 Do not become dissimilarly yoked with unbelievers. For what partnership do righteousness and lawlessness have? Or what fellowship does light have with darkness?
2 Cor. 6:15 And what concord does Christ have with Belial? Or what part does a believer have with an unbeliever?
2 Cor. 6:16 And what agreement does the temple of God have with idols? For we are the temple of the living God, even as God said, “I will dwell among them and walk among them; and I will be their God, and they will be My people.”
2 Cor. 6:17 Therefore “come out from their midst and be separated, says the Lord, and do not touch what is unclean; and I will welcome you”;
2 Cor. 6:18 “And I will be a Father to you, and you will be sons and daughters to Me, says the Lord Almighty.”


2 Corinthians Chapter 7
2 Cor. 7:1 Therefore since we have these promises, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all defilement of flesh and of spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God.
2 Cor. 7:2 Make room for us; we have wronged no one, we have corrupted no one, we have taken advantage of no one.
2 Cor. 7:3 I do not say this to condemn you, for I have said before that you are in our hearts for our dying together and our living together.
2 Cor. 7:4 Great is my boldness toward you, great is my boasting on your behalf; I am filled with comfort, I overflow with joy in all our affliction.
2 Cor. 7:5 For even when we came into Macedonia, our flesh had no rest, but we were afflicted in everything; without were fightings, within were fears.
2 Cor. 7:6 But He who comforts those who are downcast, that is, God, comforted us by the coming of Titus;
2 Cor. 7:7 And not only by his coming, but also by the comfort with which he was comforted because of you, declaring to us your longing, your lamentation, your zeal for me, so that I rejoiced the more.
2 Cor. 7:8 For though I caused you sorrow by the letter, I do not regret it. Even if I did regret it (for I see that that letter, even if for an hour, caused you sorrow),
2 Cor. 7:9 Now I rejoice, not that you were made sorrowful, but that you were made sorrowful to repentance; for you were made sorrowful according to God, that in nothing you might suffer loss from us.
2 Cor. 7:10 For sorrow according to God works repentance unto salvation, which is without regret; but the sorrow of the world works out death.
2 Cor. 7:11 For behold this very thing, your being made sorrowful according to God, what earnestness it has worked out in you, indeed what defense, indeed what indignation, indeed what fear, indeed what longing, indeed what zeal, indeed what punishment! In everything you have commended yourselves to be pure in the matter.
2 Cor. 7:12 So then, though I wrote to you, it was not for the sake of him who did the wrong, nor for the sake of him who was wronged, but for the sake of manifesting to you before God your earnestness for us.
2 Cor. 7:13 Because of this we have been comforted. And in addition to our comfort, we rejoiced more abundantly over the joy of Titus, because his spirit has been refreshed by all of you.
2 Cor. 7:14 For if in anything I boasted to him on your behalf, I have not been put to shame; on the contrary, as we spoke all things in truth to you, so also our boasting before Titus turned out to be the truth.
2 Cor. 7:15 And his affections are abundantly toward you, he remembering the obedience of you all, how you received him with fear and trembling.
2 Cor. 7:16 I rejoice that in everything I have boldness because of you.


2 Corinthians Chapter 8
2 Cor. 8:1 Furthermore we make known to you, brothers, the grace of God which has been given in the churches of Macedonia,
2 Cor. 8:2 That in much proving of affliction the abundance of their joy and the depth of their poverty abounded unto the riches of their liberality;
2 Cor. 8:3 That according to their power, I testify, and beyond their power, of their own accord,
2 Cor. 8:4 With much entreaty they besought of us the grace and the fellowship of the ministry to the saints;
2 Cor. 8:5 And this, not as we had hoped, but they gave themselves first to the Lord, and to us through the will of God.
2 Cor. 8:6 So we entreated Titus that, even as he began before, so also he would complete for you this grace as well.
2 Cor. 8:7 But just as you abound in everything, in faith and in word and in knowledge and in all earnestness and in the love in you from us, abound in this grace also.
2 Cor. 8:8 I am not speaking by way of command, but through the earnestness of others, proving also the genuineness of your love.
2 Cor. 8:9 For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though He was rich, for your sakes He became poor in order that you, because of His poverty, might become rich.
2 Cor. 8:10 And I give my opinion in this matter, for this is profitable for you who were the first to begin a year ago not only to do this but even to intend to do this.
2 Cor. 8:11 But now complete also the doing, so that as there was the eagerness in intending, so also there would be the completing out of what you have.
2 Cor. 8:12 For if the eagerness is there, it is acceptable according to whatever one has, not according to what he does not have.
2 Cor. 8:13 For it is not that to others there would be relief, yet to you affliction,
2 Cor. 8:14 But it is out of equality; at the present time your abundance for their lack that their abundance also may be for your lack, so that there may be equality;
2 Cor. 8:15 As it is written, “He who gathered much had no excess, and he who gathered little had no lack.”
2 Cor. 8:16 But thanks be to God who puts the same earnestness on your behalf in the heart of Titus,
2 Cor. 8:17 Because he not only received the entreaty, but being more earnest, he also went forth of his own accord to you.
2 Cor. 8:18 And we sent together with him the brother whose praise in the gospel is throughout all the churches,
2 Cor. 8:19 And not only this, but who has also been selected by the churches as our fellow traveler in this grace which is being ministered by us, to the glory of the Lord Himself and to demonstrate our eagerness;
2 Cor. 8:20 Avoiding this, that anyone should find fault with us in this abundance which is being ministered by us.
2 Cor. 8:21 For we exercise foresight for what is honorable not only in the sight of the Lord but also in the sight of men.
2 Cor. 8:22 And we sent with them our brother, whom we have proved to be diligent in many things many times, yet now much more diligent because of the great confidence he has toward you.
2 Cor. 8:23 Whether concerning Titus, he is my partner and fellow worker for you; or our brothers, they are apostles of the churches, they are Christ’s glory.
2 Cor. 8:24 Show therefore to them, in the face of the churches, the proof of your love and of our boasting on your behalf.


2 Corinthians Chapter 9
2 Cor. 9:1 For concerning the ministry to the saints, it is superfluous for me to write to you;
2 Cor. 9:2 For I know your eagerness, of which I boast on your behalf to the Macedonians, that Achaia has been prepared since last year; and your zeal has stirred up the greater number of them.
2 Cor. 9:3 But I sent the brothers that our boasting on your behalf might not be made void in this respect, that, as I said, you might be prepared;
2 Cor. 9:4 Lest, if the Macedonians come with me and find you unprepared, we, not to mention you, be put to shame in this confidence.
2 Cor. 9:5 Therefore I thought it necessary to entreat the brothers to go before to you and make ready beforehand your previously promised blessing, that thus this might be ready as a blessing and not as a matter of covetousness.
2 Cor. 9:6 But take note of this: He who sows sparingly shall also sparingly reap; and he who sows with blessings shall also with blessings reap;
2 Cor. 9:7 Each one as he has purposed in his heart, not out of sorrow or out of necessity, for God loves a cheerful giver.
2 Cor. 9:8 And God is able to make all grace abound unto you, that, in everything always having all sufficiency, you may abound unto every good work;
2 Cor. 9:9 Even as it is written, “He has scattered abroad; he has given to the poor; his righteousness abides forever.”
2 Cor. 9:10 Now He who bountifully supplies seed to the sower and bread for food will supply and multiply your seed and cause the fruits of your righteousness to increase.
2 Cor. 9:11 You in everything are being enriched unto all liberality, which works out through us thanksgiving to God,
2 Cor. 9:12 Because the ministry of this service is not only filling up the lack of the saints, but is also abounding through many thanksgivings to God.
2 Cor. 9:13 They, through the approving of this ministry, are glorifying God based upon the subjection unto the gospel of Christ that issues from your confession, and upon the liberality of the fellowship to them and to all;
2 Cor. 9:14 While in petition on your behalf they also long after you on account of the surpassing grace of God upon you.
2 Cor. 9:15 Thanks be to God for His indescribable gift!


2 Corinthians Chapter 10
2 Cor. 10:1 But I myself, Paul, entreat you through the meekness and gentleness of Christ, who (as you say) in person am base among you, but while absent am bold toward you,
2 Cor. 10:2 I beseech you that when present I would not have to be bold in the confidence with which I count myself, to dare do to some who count us as ones who are walking according to flesh.
2 Cor. 10:3 For though we walk in flesh, we do not war according to flesh;
2 Cor. 10:4 For the weapons of our warfare are not fleshly but powerful before God for the overthrowing of strongholds,
2 Cor. 10:5 As we overthrow reasonings and every high thing rising up against the knowledge of God, and take captive every thought unto the obedience of Christ.
2 Cor. 10:6 And we are ready to punish all disobedience when your obedience is fulfilled.
2 Cor. 10:7 You look at things according to their appearance. If someone has confidence in himself to be of Christ, let him take account of this again concerning himself, that even as he is of Christ, so also are we.
2 Cor. 10:8 For even if I should boast somewhat more abundantly concerning our authority, which the Lord has given for building you up and not for overthrowing you, I will not be put to shame.
2 Cor. 10:9 I say this so as not to seem as if I am terrifying you through my letters,
2 Cor. 10:10 Because while his letters, someone says, are weighty and strong, his bodily presence is weak and his speech contemptible.
2 Cor. 10:11 Let such a one take account of this, that such as we are in word by letters when absent, such also we are in deed when present.
2 Cor. 10:12 For we do not dare to class or compare ourselves with any of those who commend themselves; but they, measuring themselves by themselves and comparing themselves with themselves, are without understanding.
2 Cor. 10:13 But we will not boast beyond our measure but according to the measure of the rule which the God of measure has apportioned to us, to reach even as far as you.
2 Cor. 10:14 For we are not extending ourselves beyond our bounds, as if we did not reach you, for we were the first to come even as far as unto you in the gospel of Christ.
2 Cor. 10:15 We are not boasting beyond our measure in others’ labors, but have the hope, as your faith is increasing, to be magnified in you according to our rule unto abundance,
2 Cor. 10:16 So that we may announce the gospel unto those parts beyond you, not so that we may boast in another man’s rule in things already prepared.
2 Cor. 10:17 But he who boasts, let him boast in the Lord;
2 Cor. 10:18 For it is not the one who commends himself who is approved, but the one whom the Lord commends.


2 Corinthians Chapter 11
2 Cor. 11:1 I wish that you would bear with me in a little foolishness; but indeed you do bear with me.
2 Cor. 11:2 For I am jealous over you with a jealousy of God; for I betrothed you to one husband to present you as a pure virgin to Christ.
2 Cor. 11:3 But I fear lest somehow, as the serpent deceived Eve by his craftiness, your thoughts would be corrupted from the simplicity and the purity toward Christ.
2 Cor. 11:4 For if indeed he who comes preaches another Jesus, whom we have not preached, or you receive a different spirit, which you have not received, or a different gospel, which you have not accepted, you bear well with him.
2 Cor. 11:5 But I count myself to be inferior to the super-apostles in nothing.
2 Cor. 11:6 But even if I am a layman in speech, yet I am not in knowledge; indeed in every way we have made this manifest in all things to you.
2 Cor. 11:7 Or did I commit a sin, abasing myself that you might be exalted, because I announced the gospel of God to you free of charge?
2 Cor. 11:8 I robbed other churches, taking wages for the ministry to you.
2 Cor. 11:9 And when I was present with you and lacked, I was not a burden to anyone; for the brothers who came from Macedonia filled up my lack, and in everything I kept myself from being burdensome to you, and will keep myself.
2 Cor. 11:10 The truthfulness of Christ is in me, that this boasting shall not be stopped as it regards me in the regions of Achaia.
2 Cor. 11:11 Why? Because I do not love you? God knows.
2 Cor. 11:12 But what I do, I also will do, that I may cut off the opportunity of those desiring an opportunity, that in the thing in which they boast, they may be found even as we.
2 Cor. 11:13 For such ones are false apostles, deceitful workers, transfiguring themselves into apostles of Christ.
2 Cor. 11:14 And no wonder, for Satan himself transfigures himself into an angel of light.
2 Cor. 11:15 Therefore it is no great thing if also his ministers transfigure themselves into ministers of righteousness, whose end will be according to their works.
2 Cor. 11:16 Again I say, Let no one think me to be foolish; but if otherwise, accept me even as if I were foolish, that I also may boast a little.
2 Cor. 11:17 What I speak, I speak not according to the Lord but as if in foolishness, in this confidence of boasting.
2 Cor. 11:18 Since many boast according to the flesh, I also will boast.
2 Cor. 11:19 For you bear gladly with fools because you yourselves are wise.
2 Cor. 11:20 For you bear it if anyone enslaves you, if anyone devours you, if anyone takes you, if anyone lifts himself up, if anyone beats you in the face.
2 Cor. 11:21 By way of self-disparagement I say this, Supposedly we ourselves were weak. But in whatever anyone else is daring, I speak in foolishness, I also am daring.
2 Cor. 11:22 Hebrews are they? I also. Israelites are they? I also. The seed of Abraham are they? I also.
2 Cor. 11:23 Ministers of Christ are they? I speak as being beside myself, I more so! In labors more abundantly, in imprisonments more abundantly, in stripes excessively, in deaths often.
2 Cor. 11:24 Under the hands of the Jews five times I received forty stripes less one;
2 Cor. 11:25 Three times I was beaten with rods, once I was stoned, three times I was shipwrecked, a night and a day I have spent in the deep;
2 Cor. 11:26 In journeys often, in dangers of rivers, in dangers of robbers, in dangers from my race, in dangers from the Gentiles, in dangers in the city, in dangers in the wilderness, in dangers in the sea, in dangers among false brothers;
2 Cor. 11:27 In labor and hardship; in watchings often; in hunger and thirst; in fastings often; in cold and nakedness —
2 Cor. 11:28 Apart from the things which have not been mentioned, there is this: the crowd of cares pressing upon me daily, the anxious concern for all the churches.
2 Cor. 11:29 Who is weak, and I am not weak? Who is stumbled, and I myself do not burn?
2 Cor. 11:30 If I must boast, I will boast of the things of my weakness.
2 Cor. 11:31 The God and Father of the Lord Jesus, He who is blessed forever, knows that I am not lying.
2 Cor. 11:32 In Damascus, the governor under Aretas the king guarded the city of the Damascenes in order to seize me;
2 Cor. 11:33 And in a basket I was lowered through a window, through the wall, and escaped his hands.


2 Corinthians Chapter 12
2 Cor. 12:1 To boast is necessary, though indeed not expedient; yet I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord.
2 Cor. 12:2 I know a man in Christ, fourteen years ago (whether in the body I do not know, or outside the body I do not know; God knows) such a one was caught away to the third heaven.
2 Cor. 12:3 And I know such a man (whether in the body or outside the body, I do not know; God knows),
2 Cor. 12:4 That he was caught away into Paradise and heard unspeakable words, which it is not allowed for a man to speak.
2 Cor. 12:5 On behalf of such a one I will boast, but on behalf of myself I will not boast, except in my weaknesses.
2 Cor. 12:6 For if I desire to boast, I will not be foolish, for I will speak the truth; but I refrain lest anyone account of me something above what he sees me to be or hears from me.
2 Cor. 12:7 And because of the transcendence of the revelations, in order that I might not be exceedingly lifted up, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, a messenger of Satan, that he might buffet me, in order that I might not be exceedingly lifted up.
2 Cor. 12:8 Concerning this I entreated the Lord three times that it might depart from me.
2 Cor. 12:9 And He has said to me, My grace is sufficient for you, for My power is perfected in weakness. Most gladly therefore I will rather boast in my weaknesses that the power of Christ might tabernacle over me.
2 Cor. 12:10 Therefore I am well pleased in weaknesses, in insults, in necessities, in persecutions and distresses, on behalf of Christ; for when I am weak, then I am powerful.
2 Cor. 12:11 I have become foolish; you yourselves have compelled me. For it is I who should have been commended by you; for in nothing am I inferior to the super-apostles, even though I am nothing.
2 Cor. 12:12 Indeed the signs of an apostle were wrought among you in all endurance by signs and wonders and works of power.
2 Cor. 12:13 For what is there in which you were treated in a manner inferior to the rest of the churches, except that I myself was not a burden to you? Graciously forgive me this injustice!
2 Cor. 12:14 Behold, this third time I am ready to come to you, and I will not be a burden; for I do not seek what is yours but you. For the children ought not to store up for the parents, but the parents for the children.
2 Cor. 12:15 But I, I will most gladly spend and be utterly spent on behalf of your souls. If I love you more abundantly, am I loved less?
2 Cor. 12:16 But let it be. I did not burden you; but, as some of you say, being crafty, I took you by guile.
2 Cor. 12:17 Did I take advantage of you through anyone whom I have sent to you?
2 Cor. 12:18 I entreated Titus and sent with him the brother. Titus did not take advantage of you, did he? Did we not walk in the same spirit? In the same steps?
2 Cor. 12:19 All this time you have been thinking that we are defending ourselves to you. Before God in Christ we speak; but all things, beloved, are for your building up.
2 Cor. 12:20 For I fear that perhaps when I come, I may find you not such as I wish, and I may be found by you not such as you wish; that perhaps there may be strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger, selfish ambitions, slanders, whisperings, demonstrations of being puffed up, tumults;
2 Cor. 12:21 That when I come again my God may humble me before you and I may mourn over many who have sinned before and who have not repented of the uncleanness and fornication and licentiousness which they have practiced.


2 Corinthians Chapter 13

2 Cor. 13:1 This third time I am coming to you; at the mouth of two or three witnesses shall every word be established.
2 Cor. 13:2 I have previously said and I say beforehand, when I was present the second time and being absent now, to those who have sinned before and to all the rest, that if I come again, I will not spare,
2 Cor. 13:3 Since you seek a proof of the Christ who is speaking in me, who is not weak unto you but is powerful in you.
2 Cor. 13:4 For indeed He was crucified out of weakness, but He lives by the power of God. For indeed we are weak in Him, but we will live together with Him by the power of God directed toward you.
2 Cor. 13:5 Test yourselves whether you are in the faith; prove yourselves. Or do you not realize about yourselves that Jesus Christ is in you, unless you are disapproved?
2 Cor. 13:6 But I hope that you will know that we are not disapproved.
2 Cor. 13:7 Now we pray to God that you do nothing wrong, not that we may appear approved, but that you yourselves may do what is good and we may be as if disapproved.
2 Cor. 13:8 For we are not able to do anything against the truth but rather for the truth.
2 Cor. 13:9 For we rejoice whenever we are weak and you are powerful; this also we pray for, your perfecting.
2 Cor. 13:10 Therefore I write these things while being absent in order that when present I would not have to use severity, according to the authority which the Lord has given me for building up and not for overthrowing.
2 Cor. 13:11 Finally, brothers, rejoice, be perfected, be comforted, think the same thing, be at peace; and the God of love and peace will be with you.
2 Cor. 13:12 Greet one another with a holy kiss.
2 Cor. 13:13 All the saints greet you.
2 Cor. 13:14 The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all.


The Epistle of Paul to the Galatians
Subject:
Christ Replacing the Law and Being versus Religion and Tradition 
Galatians Chapter 1
Gal. 1:1 Paul, an apostle (not from men nor through man but through Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised Him from the dead),
Gal. 1:2 And all the brothers who are with me, to the churches of Galatia:
Gal. 1:3 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ,
Gal. 1:4 Who gave Himself for our sins that He might rescue us out of the present evil age according to the will of our God and Father,
Gal. 1:5 To whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
Gal. 1:6 I marvel that you are so quickly removing from Him who has called you in the grace of Christ to a different gospel,
Gal. 1:7 Which is not another gospel, only there are some who trouble you and desire to pervert the gospel of Christ.
Gal. 1:8 But if even we or an angel out of heaven should announce to you a gospel beyond that which we have announced to you, let him be accursed.
Gal. 1:9 As we have said before, now also I say again, If anyone announces to you a gospel beyond that which you have received, let him be accursed.
Gal. 1:10 For am I now trying to win the assent of men or of God? Or am I seeking to please men? If I were still trying to please men, I would not be a slave of Christ.
Gal. 1:11 For I make known to you, brothers, concerning the gospel announced by me, that it is not according to man.
Gal. 1:12 For neither did I receive it from man, nor was I taught it, but I received it through a revelation by Jesus Christ.
Gal. 1:13 For you have heard of my manner of life formerly in Judaism, that I persecuted the church of God excessively and ravaged it.
Gal. 1:14 And I advanced in Judaism beyond many contemporaries in my race, being more abundantly a zealot for the traditions of my fathers.
Gal. 1:15 But when it pleased God, who set me apart from my mother’s womb and called me through His grace,
Gal. 1:16 To reveal His Son in me that I might announce Him as the gospel among the Gentiles, immediately I did not confer with flesh and blood,
Gal. 1:17 Neither did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me, but I went away to Arabia and again returned to Damascus.
Gal. 1:18 Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to visit Cephas, and I remained with him fifteen days.
Gal. 1:19 But I saw none of the other apostles except James, the brother of the Lord.
Gal. 1:20 Now concerning the things which I am writing to you, behold, before God, I am not lying.
Gal. 1:21 Then I went into the regions of Syria and Cilicia.
Gal. 1:22 Yet I was still unknown by face to the churches of Judea, which are in Christ.
Gal. 1:23 But they only heard this: He who was formerly persecuting us is now announcing as the gospel the faith which formerly he ravaged.
Gal. 1:24 And they glorified God because of me.


Galatians Chapter 2

Gal. 2:1 Then after a period of fourteen years I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, taking Titus with me also.
Gal. 2:2 And I went up according to revelation, and I laid before them the gospel which I proclaim among the Gentiles, but privately to those who were of repute, lest perhaps I should be running, or had run, in vain.
Gal. 2:3 But not even Titus, who was with me, though he is a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised;
Gal. 2:4 And this, because of the false brothers, brought in secretly, who stole in to spy out our freedom which we have in Christ Jesus, that they might bring us into slavery.
Gal. 2:5 To them we yielded with the subjection demanded not even for an hour, that the truth of the gospel might remain with you.
Gal. 2:6 But from those who were reputed to be something — whatever they were makes no difference to me; God does not accept man’s person; for to me those who were of repute added nothing.
Gal. 2:7 But on the contrary, seeing that I had been entrusted with the gospel to the uncircumcision, even as Peter with the gospel to the circumcision
Gal. 2:8 (For He who operated in Peter for the apostleship to the circumcision operated also in me for the Gentiles),
Gal. 2:9 And perceiving the grace given to me, James and Cephas and John, who were reputed to be pillars, gave to me and to Barnabas the right hand of fellowship that we should go to the Gentiles, and they, to the circumcision.
Gal. 2:10 Only they requested that we remember the poor, which very thing I was also eager to do.
Gal. 2:11 But when Cephas came to Antioch, I opposed him to his face because he stood condemned.
Gal. 2:12 For before some came from James, he continually ate with the Gentiles; but when they came, he began to shrink back and separate himself, fearing those of the circumcision.
Gal. 2:13 And the rest of the Jews also joined him in this hypocrisy, so that even Barnabas was carried away in their hypocrisy.
Gal. 2:14 But when I saw that they were not walking in a straightforward way in relation to the truth of the gospel, I said to Cephas before them all, If you, being a Jew, live like the Gentiles and not like the Jews, how is it that you compel the Gentiles to live like the Jews?
Gal. 2:15 We are Jews by nature and not sinners from among the Gentiles;
Gal. 2:16 And knowing that a man is not justified out of works of law, but through faith in Jesus Christ, we also have believed into Christ Jesus that we might be justified out of faith in Christ and not out of the works of law, because out of the works of law no flesh will be justified.
Gal. 2:17 But if, while seeking to be justified in Christ, we ourselves also have been found sinners, is then Christ a minister of sin? Absolutely not!
Gal. 2:18 For if I build again the things which I have destroyed, I prove myself to be a transgressor.
Gal. 2:19 For I through law have died to law that I might live to God.
Gal. 2:20 I am crucified with Christ; and it is no longer I who live, but it is Christ who lives in me; and the life which I now live in the flesh I live in faith, the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave Himself up for me.
Gal. 2:21 I do not nullify the grace of God; for if righteousness is through law, then Christ has died for nothing.


Galatians Chapter 3
Gal. 3:1 O foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you, before whose eyes Jesus Christ was openly portrayed crucified?
Gal. 3:2 This only I wish to learn from you, Did you receive the Spirit out of the works of law or out of the hearing of faith?
Gal. 3:3 Are you so foolish? Having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh?
Gal. 3:4 Have you suffered so many things in vain, if indeed it was in vain?
Gal. 3:5 He therefore who bountifully supplies to you the Spirit and does works of power among you, does He do it out of the works of law or out of the hearing of faith?
Gal. 3:6 Even as “Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him as righteousness.”
Gal. 3:7 Know then that they who are of faith, these are sons of Abraham.
Gal. 3:8 And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles out of faith, announced the gospel beforehand to Abraham: “In you shall all the nations be blessed.”
Gal. 3:9 So then they who are of faith are blessed with believing Abraham.
Gal. 3:10 For as many as are of the works of law are under a curse; for it is written, “Cursed is everyone who does not continue in all the things written in the book of the law to do them.”
Gal. 3:11 And that by law no one is justified before God is evident because, “The righteous one shall have life and live by faith”;
Gal. 3:12 But the law is not of faith, yet, “He who does them shall live because of them.”
Gal. 3:13 Christ has redeemed us out of the curse of the law, having become a curse on our behalf; because it is written, “Cursed is everyone hanging on a tree”;
Gal. 3:14 In order that the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles in Christ Jesus, that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith.
Gal. 3:15 Brothers, I speak according to man, though it is a man’s covenant, yet when it has been ratified, no one nullifies it or makes additions to it.
Gal. 3:16 But to Abraham were the promises spoken and to his seed. He does not say, And to the seeds, as concerning many, but as concerning one: “And to your seed,” who is Christ.
Gal. 3:17 And I say this: A covenant previously ratified by God, the law, having come four hundred and thirty years after, does not annul so as to make the promise of none effect.
Gal. 3:18 For if the inheritance is of law, it is no longer of promise; but to Abraham God has graciously given it through promise.
Gal. 3:19 Why then the law? It was added because of the transgressions until the seed should come to whom the promise was made, it being ordained through angels in the hand of a mediator.
Gal. 3:20 But a mediator is not a mediator for one, but God is one.
Gal. 3:21 Is then the law against the promises of God? Absolutely not! For if a law had been given which was able to give life, righteousness would have indeed been of law.
Gal. 3:22 But the Scripture has shut up all under sin in order that the promise out of faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe.
Gal. 3:23 But before faith came we were guarded under law, being shut up unto the faith which was to be revealed.
Gal. 3:24 So then the law has become our child-conductor unto Christ that we might be justified out of faith.
Gal. 3:25 But since faith has come, we are no longer under a child-conductor.
Gal. 3:26 For you are all sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus.
Gal. 3:27 For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ.
Gal. 3:28 There cannot be Jew nor Greek, there cannot be slave nor free man, there cannot be male and female; for you are all one in Christ Jesus.
Gal. 3:29 And if you are of Christ, then you are Abraham’s seed, heirs according to promise.


Galatians Chapter 4

Gal. 4:1 But I say, As long as the heir is a child, he does not differ at all from a slave, though he is lord of all;
Gal. 4:2 But he is under guardians and stewards until the time appointed by the father.
Gal. 4:3 So also we, when we were children, were kept in slavery under the elements of the world;
Gal. 4:4 But when the fullness of the time came, God sent forth His Son, born of a woman, born under law,
Gal. 4:5 That He might redeem those under law that we might receive the sonship.
Gal. 4:6 And because you are sons, God has sent forth the Spirit of His Son into our hearts, crying, Abba, Father!
Gal. 4:7 So then you are no longer a slave but a son; and if a son, an heir also through God.
Gal. 4:8 However at that time, not knowing God, you were slaves to the gods which by nature are not gods;
Gal. 4:9 But now, having come to know God, or rather having been known by God, how is it that you turn again to the weak and poor elements, to which you desire to be enslaved yet again?
Gal. 4:10 You observe days and months and seasons and years;
Gal. 4:11 I fear for you, lest I have labored upon you in vain.
Gal. 4:12 Become as I am, because I also am as you are, brothers, I beseech you; you have not wronged me at all.
Gal. 4:13 And you know that because of weakness of my flesh I announced the gospel to you the first time.
Gal. 4:14 And that which was a trial to you in my flesh you did not despise nor loathe, but you received me as an angel of God, indeed as Christ Jesus.
Gal. 4:15 Where then is your felicitation? For I testify concerning you that if possible you would have plucked out your eyes and given them to me.
Gal. 4:16 So then have I become your enemy by presenting the truth to you?
Gal. 4:17 They are zealous of you, but not rightly; but they desire to shut you out that you may be zealous of them.
Gal. 4:18 But it is always good to be zealous in a good thing, and not only when I am present with you.
Gal. 4:19 My children, with whom I travail again in birth until Christ is formed in you,
Gal. 4:20 Indeed, I wish I could be present with you now and change my tone because I am perplexed about you.
Gal. 4:21 Tell me, you who desire to be under the law, do you not hear the law?
Gal. 4:22 For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one of the maidservant and one of the free woman.
Gal. 4:23 However the one of the maidservant was born according to the flesh, but the one of the free woman was born through promise.
Gal. 4:24 These things are spoken allegorically, for these women are two covenants, one from Mount Sinai, bringing forth children unto slavery, which is Hagar.
Gal. 4:25 Now this Hagar is Sinai the mountain in Arabia and corresponds to the Jerusalem which now is, for she is in slavery with her children.
Gal. 4:26 But the Jerusalem above is free, which is our mother;
Gal. 4:27 For it is written, “Rejoice, barren one who does not bear; break forth and shout, you who are not travailing, because many are the children of her who is desolate rather than of her who has her husband.”
Gal. 4:28 But you, brothers, in the way Isaac was, are children of promise.
Gal. 4:29 But just as at that time he who was born according to the flesh persecuted him who was born according to the Spirit, so also it is now.
Gal. 4:30 But what does the Scripture say? “Cast out the maidservant and her son, for the son of the maidservant shall by no means inherit with the son of the free woman.”
Gal. 4:31 So then, brothers, we are not children of the maidservant but of the free woman.


Galatians Chapter 5
Gal. 5:1 It is for freedom that Christ has set us free; stand fast therefore, and do not be entangled with a yoke of slavery again.
Gal. 5:2 Behold, I Paul say to you that if you become circumcised, Christ will profit you nothing.
Gal. 5:3 And I testify again to every man who becomes circumcised that he is a debtor to do the whole law.
Gal. 5:4 You have been brought to nought, separated from Christ, you who are being justified by law; you have fallen from grace.
Gal. 5:5 For we by the Spirit out of faith eagerly await the hope of righteousness.
Gal. 5:6 For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision avails anything nor uncircumcision, but faith avails, operating through love.
Gal. 5:7 You were running well. Who hindered you that you would not believe and obey the truth?
Gal. 5:8 This persuasion is not of Him who calls you.
Gal. 5:9 A little leaven leavens the whole lump.
Gal. 5:10 I am confident in the Lord concerning you that you will be of no other mind; but he who is troubling you shall bear the judgment, whoever he may be.
Gal. 5:11 But I, brothers, if I still preach circumcision, why am I still being persecuted? Then the stumbling block of the cross has been annulled.
Gal. 5:12 I wish that those upsetting you would even cut themselves off.
Gal. 5:13 For you were called for freedom, brothers; only do not turn this freedom into an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another.
Gal. 5:14 For the whole law is fulfilled in one word, in this, “You shall love your neighbor as yourself.”
Gal. 5:15 But if you bite and devour one another, beware lest you be consumed by one another.
Gal. 5:16 But I say, Walk by the Spirit and you shall by no means fulfill the lust of the flesh.
Gal. 5:17 For the flesh lusts against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh; for these oppose each other that you would not do the things that you desire.
Gal. 5:18 But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law.
Gal. 5:19 And the works of the flesh are manifest, which are such things as fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness,
Gal. 5:20 Idolatry, sorcery, enmities, strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger, factions, divisions, sects,
Gal. 5:21 Envyings, bouts of drunkenness, carousings, and things like these, of which I tell you beforehand, even as I have said before, that those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.
Gal. 5:22 But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness,
Gal. 5:23 Meekness, self-control; against such things there is no law.
Gal. 5:24 But they who are of Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and its lusts.
Gal. 5:25 If we live by the Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit.
Gal. 5:26 Let us not become vainglorious, provoking one another, envying one another.


Galatians Chapter 6
Gal. 6:1 Brothers, even if a man is overtaken in some offense, you who are spiritual restore such a one in a spirit of meekness, looking to yourself lest you also be tempted.
Gal. 6:2 Bear one another’s burdens, and in this way you will fulfill the law of Christ completely.
Gal. 6:3 For if anyone thinks he is something when he is nothing, he deceives himself.
Gal. 6:4 But let each man prove his own work, and then he will have his boast in regard to himself alone and not in regard to another.
Gal. 6:5 For each one shall bear his own load.
Gal. 6:6 But let him who is instructed in the word share in all good things with him who instructs.
Gal. 6:7 Do not be deceived: God is not mocked; for whatever a man sows, this he will also reap.
Gal. 6:8 For he who sows unto his own flesh will reap corruption of the flesh, but he who sows unto the Spirit will of the Spirit reap eternal life.
Gal. 6:9 And let us not lose heart in doing what is good, for in the proper season we will reap if we do not faint.
Gal. 6:10 So then, as we have the opportunity, let us do what is good toward all, but especially toward those of the household of the faith.
Gal. 6:11 See with what large letters I have written to you with my own hand.
Gal. 6:12 As many as desire to make a good show in the flesh, these compel you to be circumcised, but only that they may not be persecuted for the cross of Christ.
Gal. 6:13 For neither do they that become circumcised keep the law themselves, but they desire you to be circumcised that they may boast in your flesh.
Gal. 6:14 But far be it from me to boast except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom the world has been crucified to me and I to the world.
Gal. 6:15 For neither is circumcision anything nor uncircumcision, but a new creation is what matters.
Gal. 6:16 And as many as walk by this rule, peace be upon them and mercy, even upon the Israel of God.
Gal. 6:17 Henceforth let no one trouble me, for I bear in my body the brands of Jesus.
Gal. 6:18 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit, brothers. Amen.


The Epistle of Paul to the Ephesians
Subject:
The Church — The Mystery of Christ, the Body of Christ as the Fullness of Christ, Becoming the Fullness of God 
Ephesians Chapter 1
Eph. 1:1 Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God, to the saints who are in Ephesus and are faithful in Christ Jesus:
Eph. 1:2 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Eph. 1:3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenlies in Christ,
Eph. 1:4 Even as He chose us in Him before the foundation of the world to be holy and without blemish before Him in love,
Eph. 1:5 Predestinating us unto sonship through Jesus Christ to Himself, according to the good pleasure of His will,
Eph. 1:6 To the praise of the glory of His grace, with which He graced us in the Beloved;
Eph. 1:7 In whom we have redemption through His blood, the forgiveness of offenses, according to the riches of His grace,
Eph. 1:8 Which He caused to abound to us in all wisdom and prudence,
Eph. 1:9 Making known to us the mystery of His will according to His good pleasure, which He purposed in Himself,
Eph. 1:10 Unto the economy of the fullness of the times, to head up all things in Christ, the things in the heavens and the things on the earth, in Him;
Eph. 1:11 In whom also we were designated as an inheritance, having been predestinated according to the purpose of the One who works all things according to the counsel of His will,
Eph. 1:12 That we would be to the praise of His glory who have first hoped in Christ,
Eph. 1:13 In whom you also, having heard the word of the truth, the gospel of your salvation, in Him also believing, you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of the promise,
Eph. 1:14 Who is the pledge of our inheritance, unto the redemption of the acquired possession, to the praise of His glory.
Eph. 1:15 Therefore I also, having heard of the faith in the Lord Jesus which is among you and your love to all the saints,
Eph. 1:16 Do not cease giving thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers,
Eph. 1:17 That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give to you a spirit of wisdom and revelation in the full knowledge of Him,
Eph. 1:18 The eyes of your heart having been enlightened, that you may know what is the hope of His calling, and what are the riches of the glory of His inheritance in the saints,
Eph. 1:19 And what is the surpassing greatness of His power toward us who believe, according to the operation of the might of His strength,
Eph. 1:20 Which He caused to operate in Christ in raising Him from the dead and seating Him at His right hand in the heavenlies,
Eph. 1:21 Far above all rule and authority and power and lordship and every name that is named not only in this age but also in that which is to come;
Eph. 1:22 And He subjected all things under His feet and gave Him to be Head over all things to the church,
Eph. 1:23 Which is His Body, the fullness of the One who fills all in all.


Ephesians Chapter 2
Eph. 2:1 And you, though dead in your offenses and sins,
Eph. 2:2 In which you once walked according to the age of this world, according to the ruler of the authority of the air, of the spirit which is now operating in the sons of disobedience;
Eph. 2:3 Among whom we also all conducted ourselves once in the lusts of our flesh, doing the desires of the flesh and of the thoughts, and were by nature children of wrath, even as the rest;
Eph. 2:4 But God, being rich in mercy, because of His great love with which He loved us,
Eph. 2:5 Even when we were dead in offenses, made us alive together with Christ (by grace you have been saved)
Eph. 2:6 And raised us up together with Him and seated us together with Him in the heavenlies in Christ Jesus,
Eph. 2:7 That He might display in the ages to come the surpassing riches of His grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus.
Eph. 2:8 For by grace you have been saved through faith, and this not of yourselves; it is the gift of God;
Eph. 2:9 Not of works that no one should boast.
Eph. 2:10 For we are His masterpiece, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand in order that we would walk in them.
Eph. 2:11 Therefore remember that once you, the Gentiles in the flesh, those who are called uncircumcision by that which is called circumcision in the flesh made by hands,
Eph. 2:12 That you were at that time apart from Christ, alienated from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers to the covenants of the promise, having no hope and without God in the world.
Eph. 2:13 But now in Christ Jesus you who were once far off have become near in the blood of Christ.
Eph. 2:14 For He Himself is our peace, He who has made both one and has broken down the middle wall of partition, the enmity,
Eph. 2:15 Abolishing in His flesh the law of the commandments in ordinances, that He might create the two in Himself into one new man, so making peace,
Eph. 2:16 And might reconcile both in one Body to God through the cross, having slain the enmity by it.
Eph. 2:17 And coming, He announced peace as the gospel to you who were far off, and peace to those who were near,
Eph. 2:18 For through Him we both have access in one Spirit unto the Father.
Eph. 2:19 So then you are no longer strangers and sojourners, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God,
Eph. 2:20 Being built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus Himself being the cornerstone;
Eph. 2:21 In whom all the building, being fitted together, is growing into a holy temple in the Lord;
Eph. 2:22 In whom you also are being built together into a dwelling place of God in spirit.


Ephesians Chapter 3
Eph. 3:1 For this cause I Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus on behalf of you, the Gentiles —
Eph. 3:2 If indeed you have heard of the stewardship of the grace of God which was given to me for you,
Eph. 3:3 That by revelation the mystery was made known to me, as I have written previously in brief,
Eph. 3:4 By which, in reading it, you can perceive my understanding in the mystery of Christ,
Eph. 3:5 Which in other generations was not made known to the sons of men, as it has now been revealed to His holy apostles and prophets in spirit,
Eph. 3:6 That in Christ Jesus the Gentiles are fellow heirs and fellow members of the Body and fellow partakers of the promise through the gospel,
Eph. 3:7 Of which I became a minister according to the gift of the grace of God which was given to me according to the operation of His power.
Eph. 3:8 To me, less than the least of all saints, was this grace given to announce to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ as the gospel
Eph. 3:9 And to enlighten all that they may see what the economy of the mystery is, which throughout the ages has been hidden in God, who created all things,
Eph. 3:10 In order that now to the rulers and the authorities in the heavenlies the multifarious wisdom of God might be made known through the church,
Eph. 3:11 According to the eternal purpose which He made in Christ Jesus our Lord,
Eph. 3:12 In whom we have boldness and access in confidence through faith in Him.
Eph. 3:13 Therefore I ask you not to faint at my afflictions for your sake, since they are your glory.
Eph. 3:14 For this cause I bow my knees unto the Father,
Eph. 3:15 Of whom every family in the heavens and on earth is named,
Eph. 3:16 That He would grant you, according to the riches of His glory, to be strengthened with power through His Spirit into the inner man,
Eph. 3:17 That Christ may make His home in your hearts through faith, that you, being rooted and grounded in love,
Eph. 3:18 May be full of strength to apprehend with all the saints what the breadth and length and height and depth are
Eph. 3:19 And to know the knowledge-surpassing love of Christ, that you may be filled unto all the fullness of God.
Eph. 3:20 But to Him who is able to do superabundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power which operates in us,
Eph. 3:21 To Him be the glory in the church and in Christ Jesus unto all the generations forever and ever. Amen.


Ephesians Chapter 4
Eph. 4:1 I beseech you therefore, I, the prisoner in the Lord, to walk worthily of the calling with which you were called,
Eph. 4:2 With all lowliness and meekness, with long-suffering, bearing one another in love,
Eph. 4:3 Being diligent to keep the oneness of the Spirit in the uniting bond of peace:
Eph. 4:4 One Body and one Spirit, even as also you were called in one hope of your calling;
Eph. 4:5 One Lord, one faith, one baptism;
Eph. 4:6 One God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all.
Eph. 4:7 But to each one of us grace was given according to the measure of the gift of Christ.
Eph. 4:8 Therefore the Scripture says, “Having ascended to the height, He led captive those taken captive and gave gifts to men.”
Eph. 4:9 (Now this, “He ascended,” what is it except that He also descended into the lower parts of the earth?
Eph. 4:10 He who descended, He is also the One who ascended far above all the heavens that He might fill all things.)
Eph. 4:11 And He Himself gave some as apostles and some as prophets and some as evangelists and some as shepherds and teachers,
Eph. 4:12 For the perfecting of the saints unto the work of the ministry, unto the building up of the Body of Christ,
Eph. 4:13 Until we all arrive at the oneness of the faith and of the full knowledge of the Son of God, at a full-grown man, at the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ,
Eph. 4:14 That we may be no longer little children tossed by waves and carried about by every wind of teaching in the sleight of men, in craftiness with a view to a system of error,
Eph. 4:15 But holding to truth in love, we may grow up into Him in all things, who is the Head, Christ,
Eph. 4:16 Out from whom all the Body, being joined together and being knit together through every joint of the rich supply and through the operation in the measure of each one part, causes the growth of the Body unto the building up of itself in love.
Eph. 4:17 This therefore I say and testify in the Lord, that you no longer walk as the Gentiles also walk in the vanity of their mind,
Eph. 4:18 Being darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance which is in them, because of the hardness of their heart;
Eph. 4:19 Who, being past feeling, have given themselves over to lasciviousness to work all uncleanness in greediness.
Eph. 4:20 But you did not so learn Christ,
Eph. 4:21 If indeed you have heard Him and have been taught in Him as the reality is in Jesus,
Eph. 4:22 That you put off, as regards your former manner of life, the old man, which is being corrupted according to the lusts of the deceit,
Eph. 4:23 And that you be renewed in the spirit of your mind
Eph. 4:24 And put on the new man, which was created according to God in righteousness and holiness of the reality.
Eph. 4:25 Therefore having put off the lie, speak truth each one with his neighbor, for we are members one of another.
Eph. 4:26 Be angry, yet do not sin; do not let the sun go down on your indignation,
Eph. 4:27 Neither give place to the devil.
Eph. 4:28 He who steals should steal no more, but rather should labor, working with his own hands in that which is respectable, that he may have something to share with him who has need.
Eph. 4:29 Let no corrupt word proceed out of your mouth, but only that which is good for building up, according to the need, that it may give grace to those who hear.
Eph. 4:30 And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, in whom you were sealed unto the day of redemption.
Eph. 4:31 Let all bitterness and anger and wrath and clamor and evil speaking be removed from you, with all malice.
Eph. 4:32 And be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God in Christ also forgave you.


Ephesians Chapter 5
Eph. 5:1 Be therefore imitators of God, as beloved children;
Eph. 5:2 And walk in love, even as Christ also loved us and gave Himself up for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling savor.
Eph. 5:3 But fornication and all uncleanness or greediness, let it not even be named among you, as is fitting for saints,
Eph. 5:4 And obscenity and foolish talking or sly, filthy jesting, which are not becoming, but rather the giving of thanks.
Eph. 5:5 For this you realize, knowing that every fornicator or unclean person or greedy person (who is an idolater) has no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God.
Eph. 5:6 Let no one deceive you with vain words, for because of these things the wrath of God is coming upon the sons of disobedience.
Eph. 5:7 Therefore do not be partakers with them;
Eph. 5:8 For you were once darkness but are now light in the Lord; walk as children of light
Eph. 5:9 (For the fruit of the light consists in all goodness and righteousness and truth),
Eph. 5:10 Proving what is well pleasing to the Lord.
Eph. 5:11 And do not participate in the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather even reprove them.
Eph. 5:12 For the things which are done by them in secret it is shameful even to speak of.
Eph. 5:13 But all things which are reproved are made manifest by the light; for everything that makes manifest is light.
Eph. 5:14 Therefore He says, Awake, sleeper, and arise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you.
Eph. 5:15 Look therefore carefully how you walk, not as unwise, but as wise,
Eph. 5:16 Redeeming the time, because the days are evil.
Eph. 5:17 Therefore do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is.
Eph. 5:18 And do not be drunk with wine, in which is dissoluteness, but be filled in spirit,
Eph. 5:19 Speaking to one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and psalming with your heart to the Lord,
Eph. 5:20 Giving thanks at all times for all things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ to our God and Father,
Eph. 5:21 Being subject to one another in the fear of Christ:
Eph. 5:22 Wives, be subject to your own husbands as to the Lord;
Eph. 5:23 For a husband is head of the wife as also Christ is Head of the church, He Himself being the Savior of the Body.
Eph. 5:24 But as the church is subject to Christ, so also let the wives be subject to their husbands in everything.
Eph. 5:25 Husbands, love your wives even as Christ also loved the church and gave Himself up for her
Eph. 5:26 That He might sanctify her, cleansing her by the washing of the water in the word,
Eph. 5:27 That He might present the church to Himself glorious, not having spot or wrinkle or any such things, but that she would be holy and without blemish.
Eph. 5:28 In the same way the husbands also ought to love their own wives as their own bodies; he who loves his own wife loves himself.
Eph. 5:29 For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, even as Christ also the church,
Eph. 5:30 Because we are members of His Body.
Eph. 5:31 For this cause a man shall leave his father and mother and shall be joined to his wife, and the two shall be one flesh.
Eph. 5:32 This mystery is great, but I speak with regard to Christ and the church.
Eph. 5:33 Nevertheless you also, each one of you, in the same way love your own wife as yourself; and the wife should fear her husband.


Ephesians Chapter 6
Eph. 6:1 Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right.
Eph. 6:2 “Honor your father and mother,” which is the first commandment with a promise,
Eph. 6:3 “That it may be well with you and that you may live long on the earth.”
Eph. 6:4 And fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but nurture them in the discipline and admonition of the Lord.
Eph. 6:5 Slaves, be obedient to those who are your masters according to the flesh with fear and trembling, in singleness of your heart, as to Christ;
Eph. 6:6 Not with eye-service as men-pleasers but as slaves of Christ, doing the will of God from the soul;
Eph. 6:7 With good will serving as slaves, as serving the Lord and not men;
Eph. 6:8 Knowing that whatever good thing each one does, this he will receive back from the Lord, whether he is a slave or a free man.
Eph. 6:9 And masters, do the same things toward them, giving up your threatening, knowing that both their Master and yours is in the heavens, and there is no respect of persons with Him.
Eph. 6:10 Finally, be empowered in the Lord and in the might of His strength.
Eph. 6:11 Put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the stratagems of the devil,
Eph. 6:12 For our wrestling is not against blood and flesh but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the world-rulers of this darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenlies.
Eph. 6:13 Therefore take up the whole armor of God that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand.
Eph. 6:14 Stand therefore, having girded your loins with truth and having put on the breastplate of righteousness
Eph. 6:15 And having shod your feet with the firm foundation of the gospel of peace;
Eph. 6:16 Besides all these, having taken up the shield of faith, with which you will be able to quench all the flaming darts of the evil one.
Eph. 6:17 And receive the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which Spirit is the word of God,
Eph. 6:18 By means of all prayer and petition, praying at every time in spirit and watching unto this in all perseverance and petition concerning all the saints,
Eph. 6:19 And for me, that utterance may be given to me in the opening of my mouth, to make known in boldness the mystery of the gospel,
Eph. 6:20 For which I am an ambassador in a chain, that in it I would speak boldly, as I ought to speak.
Eph. 6:21 But that you also may know the things concerning me, how I am doing, Tychicus, the beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord, will make all things known to you.
Eph. 6:22 Him I have sent to you for this very thing, that you may know the things concerning us and that he may comfort your hearts.
Eph. 6:23 Peace to the brothers and love with faith from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Eph. 6:24 Grace be with all those who love our Lord Jesus Christ in incorruptibility.


The Epistle of Paul to the Philippians
Subject:
Experiencing Christ — Taking Christ as Our Living, Pattern, Goal, Power, and Secret 
Philippians Chapter 1
Phil. 1:1 Paul and Timothy, slaves of Christ Jesus, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are in Philippi, with the overseers and deacons:
Phil. 1:2 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Phil. 1:3 I thank my God upon all my remembrance of you,
Phil. 1:4 Always in my every petition on behalf of you all, making my petition with joy,
Phil. 1:5 For your fellowship unto the furtherance of the gospel from the first day until now,
Phil. 1:6 Being confident of this very thing, that He who has begun in you a good work will complete it until the day of Christ Jesus;
Phil. 1:7 Even as it is right for me to think this concerning you all because you have me in your heart, since both in my bonds and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel you are all fellow partakers with me of grace.
Phil. 1:8 For God is my witness how I long after you all in the inward parts of Christ Jesus.
Phil. 1:9 And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in full knowledge and all discernment,
Phil. 1:10 So that you may approve by testing the things which differ and are more excellent, that you may be pure and without offense unto the day of Christ,
Phil. 1:11 Being filled with the fruit of righteousness, which is through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
Phil. 1:12 Now I want you to know, brothers, that the things concerning me have turned out rather to the advancement of the gospel,
Phil. 1:13 So that my bonds have become manifest as being in Christ among the whole Praetorian guard and to all the rest.
Phil. 1:14 And most of the brothers, being confident in the Lord because of my bonds, are more exceedingly bold to speak the word of God without fear.
Phil. 1:15 Some preach Christ even because of envy and strife, and some also because of good will,
Phil. 1:16 These out of love, knowing that I am set for the defense of the gospel.
Phil. 1:17 But the others announce Christ out of selfish ambition, not purely, thinking to raise up affliction in my bonds.
Phil. 1:18 What then? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truthfulness, Christ is announced; and in this I rejoice; yes, and I will rejoice;
Phil. 1:19 For I know that for me this will turn out to salvation through your petition and the bountiful supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
Phil. 1:20 According to my earnest expectation and hope that in nothing I will be put to shame, but with all boldness, as always, even now Christ will be magnified in my body, whether through life or through death.
Phil. 1:21 For to me, to live is Christ and to die is gain.
Phil. 1:22 But if I am to live in the flesh, if this to me is fruit for my work, then I do not know what I will choose.
Phil. 1:23 But I am constrained between the two, having the desire to depart and be with Christ, for this is far better;
Phil. 1:24 But to remain in the flesh is more necessary for your sake.
Phil. 1:25 And being confident of this, I know that I will remain and continue with you all for your progress and joy of the faith,
Phil. 1:26 That your boast may abound in Christ Jesus in me through my coming again to you.
Phil. 1:27 Only, conduct yourselves in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ, that whether coming and seeing you or being absent, I may hear of the things concerning you, that you stand firm in one spirit, with one soul striving together along with the faith of the gospel,
Phil. 1:28 And in nothing being frightened by the opposers, which is to them a proof of their destruction, but of your salvation, and that from God;
Phil. 1:29 Because to you it has been graciously granted on behalf of Christ not only to believe into Him but also to suffer on His behalf,
Phil. 1:30 Having the same struggle which you saw in me and now hear to be in me.


Philippians Chapter 2
Phil. 2:1 If there is therefore any encouragement in Christ, if any consolation of love, if any fellowship of spirit, if any tenderheartedness and compassions,
Phil. 2:2 Make my joy full, that you think the same thing, having the same love, joined in soul, thinking the one thing,
Phil. 2:3 Doing nothing by way of selfish ambition nor by way of vainglory, but in lowliness of mind considering one another more excellent than yourselves;
Phil. 2:4 Not regarding each his own virtues, but each the virtues of others also.
Phil. 2:5 Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus,
Phil. 2:6 Who, existing in the form of God, did not consider being equal with God a treasure to be grasped,
Phil. 2:7 But emptied Himself, taking the form of a slave, becoming in the likeness of men;
Phil. 2:8 And being found in fashion as a man, He humbled Himself, becoming obedient even unto death, and that the death of a cross.
Phil. 2:9 Therefore also God highly exalted Him and bestowed on Him the name which is above every name,
Phil. 2:10 That in the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those who are in heaven and on earth and under the earth,
Phil. 2:11 And every tongue should openly confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father.
Phil. 2:12 So then, my beloved, even as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only but now much rather in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling;
Phil. 2:13 For it is God who operates in you both the willing and the working for His good pleasure.
Phil. 2:14 Do all things without murmurings and reasonings
Phil. 2:15 That you may be blameless and guileless, children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and perverted generation, among whom you shine as luminaries in the world,
Phil. 2:16 Holding forth the word of life, so that I may have a boast in the day of Christ that I did not run in vain nor labor in vain.
Phil. 2:17 But even if I am being poured out as a drink offering upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice, and I rejoice together with you all.
Phil. 2:18 And in like manner you also rejoice, and you rejoice together with me.
Phil. 2:19 But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you shortly, that I also may be encouraged by knowing the things concerning you.
Phil. 2:20 For I have no one like-souled who will genuinely care for what concerns you;
Phil. 2:21 For all seek their own things, not the things of Christ Jesus.
Phil. 2:22 But you know his approvedness, that as a child with a father he has served with me unto the gospel.
Phil. 2:23 Him therefore I hope to send immediately, as soon as I see how things go with me.
Phil. 2:24 But I trust in the Lord that I myself also will come shortly.
Phil. 2:25 But I considered it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother and fellow worker and fellow soldier, and your apostle and minister to my need,
Phil. 2:26 Since he longed after you all and was greatly distressed because you heard that he had become sick;
Phil. 2:27 For indeed he had become sick, near to death, but God had mercy on him, and not on him only but also on me that I might not have sorrow upon sorrow.
Phil. 2:28 I have sent him therefore the more eagerly, so that when you see him again, you may rejoice and I may be less sorrowful.
Phil. 2:29 Receive him therefore in the Lord with all joy, and hold such in honor,
Phil. 2:30 Because for the work of Christ he drew near unto death, risking his life, that he might fill up your lack of service toward me.


Philippians Chapter 3
Phil. 3:1 Finally, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you, for me it is not irksome, but for you it is safe.
Phil. 3:2 Beware of the dogs, beware of the evil workers, beware of the concision.
Phil. 3:3 For we are the circumcision, the ones who serve by the Spirit of God and boast in Christ Jesus and have no confidence in the flesh,
Phil. 3:4 Though I myself have something to be confident of in the flesh as well. If any other man thinks that he has confidence in the flesh, I more:
Phil. 3:5 Circumcised the eighth day; of the race of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew born of Hebrews; as to the law, a Pharisee;
Phil. 3:6 As to zeal, persecuting the church; as to the righteousness which is in the law, become blameless.
Phil. 3:7 But what things were gains to me, these I have counted as loss on account of Christ.
Phil. 3:8 But moreover I also count all things to be loss on account of the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, on account of whom I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as refuse that I may gain Christ
Phil. 3:9 And be found in Him, not having my own righteousness which is out of the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is out of God and based on faith,
Phil. 3:10 To know Him and the power of His resurrection and the fellowship of His sufferings, being conformed to His death,
Phil. 3:11 If perhaps I may attain to the out-resurrection from the dead.
Phil. 3:12 Not that I have already obtained or am already perfected, but I pursue, if even I may lay hold of that for which I also have been laid hold of by Christ Jesus.
Phil. 3:13 Brothers, I do not account of myself to have laid hold; but one thing I do: Forgetting the things which are behind and stretching forward to the things which are before,
Phil. 3:14 I pursue toward the goal for the prize to which God in Christ Jesus has called me upward.
Phil. 3:15 Let us therefore, as many as are full-grown, have this mind; and if in anything you are otherwise minded, this also God will reveal to you.
Phil. 3:16 Nevertheless whereunto we have attained, by the same rule let us walk.
Phil. 3:17 Be imitators together of me, brothers, and observe those who thus walk even as you have us as a pattern.
Phil. 3:18 For many walk, of whom I have told you often and now tell you even weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ,
Phil. 3:19 Whose end is destruction, whose god is their stomach, and whose glory is in their shame, who set their minds on earthly things.
Phil. 3:20 For our commonwealth exists in the heavens, from which also we eagerly await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ,
Phil. 3:21 Who will transfigure the body of our humiliation to be conformed to the body of His glory, according to His operation by which He is able even to subject all things to Himself.


Philippians Chapter 4
Phil. 4:1 So then, my brothers, beloved and longed for, my joy and crown, in the same way stand firm in the Lord, beloved.
Phil. 4:2 I exhort Euodias, and I exhort Syntyche, to think the same thing in the Lord.
Phil. 4:3 Yes, I ask you also, genuine yokefellow, assist them, since they contended with me in the gospel, as well as with Clement and the rest of my fellow workers, whose names are in the book of life.
Phil. 4:4 Rejoice in the Lord always; again I will say, rejoice.
Phil. 4:5 Let your forbearance be known to all men. The Lord is near.
Phil. 4:6 In nothing be anxious, but in everything, by prayer and petition with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God;
Phil. 4:7 And the peace of God, which surpasses every man’s understanding, will guard your hearts and your thoughts in Christ Jesus.
Phil. 4:8 Finally, brothers, what things are true, what things are dignified, what things are righteous, what things are pure, what things are lovely, what things are well spoken of, if there is any virtue and if any praise, take account of these things.
Phil. 4:9 The things which you have also learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things; and the God of peace will be with you.
Phil. 4:10 But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly because now at length you have caused your thinking for me to blossom anew; for which matter you had indeed taken thought, but lacked opportunity.
Phil. 4:11 Not that I speak according to lack, for I have learned, in whatever circumstances I am, to be content.
Phil. 4:12 I know also how to be abased, and I know how to abound; in everything and in all things I have learned the secret both to be filled and to hunger, both to abound and to lack.
Phil. 4:13 I am able to do all things in Him who empowers me.
Phil. 4:14 Nevertheless you did well to have fellowship with me in my affliction.
Phil. 4:15 And you yourselves also know, Philippians, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I went out from Macedonia, no church had fellowship with me in the account of giving and receiving except you only;
Phil. 4:16 For even in Thessalonica you sent both once and again to my need.
Phil. 4:17 Not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit which increases to your account.
Phil. 4:18 But I have received in full all things and abound; I have been filled, receiving from Epaphroditus the things from you, a sweet-smelling savor, an acceptable sacrifice, well pleasing to God.
Phil. 4:19 And my God will fill your every need according to His riches, in glory, in Christ Jesus.
Phil. 4:20 Now to our God and Father be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
Phil. 4:21 Greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The brothers who are with me greet you.
Phil. 4:22 All the saints greet you, and especially those of Caesar’s household.
Phil. 4:23 The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.


The Epistle of Paul to the Colossians 
Subject:
Christ — The All-inclusive One, Having the First Place in All Things as the Mystery and Embodiment of God, as the Head and Constituent of the Church, as the Allotted Portion, Life, Constituent, and Hope of the Saints, and as the Body of All Positive Things 
Colossians Chapter 1
Col. 1:1 Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God, and Timothy the brother,
Col. 1:2 To the saints in Colossae and faithful brothers in Christ: Grace to you and peace from God our Father.
Col. 1:3 We give thanks to God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always concerning you,
Col. 1:4 Because we have heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and the love which you have unto all the saints
Col. 1:5 Because of the hope laid up for you in the heavens, of which you heard before in the word of the truth of the gospel,
Col. 1:6 Which has come to you, even as it is also in all the world, bearing fruit and growing, as also in you, since the day you heard and knew the grace of God in truth;
Col. 1:7 Even as you learned from Epaphras, our beloved fellow slave, who is a faithful minister of Christ on your behalf,
Col. 1:8 Who also has made known to us your love in the Spirit.
Col. 1:9 Therefore we also, since the day we heard of it, do not cease praying and asking on your behalf that you may be filled with the full knowledge of His will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding,
Col. 1:10 To walk worthily of the Lord to please Him in all things, bearing fruit in every good work and growing by the full knowledge of God,
Col. 1:11 Being empowered with all power, according to the might of His glory, unto all endurance and long-suffering with joy,
Col. 1:12 Giving thanks to the Father, who has qualified you for a share of the allotted portion of the saints in the light;
Col. 1:13 Who delivered us out of the authority of darkness and transferred us into the kingdom of the Son of His love,
Col. 1:14 In whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins;
Col. 1:15 Who is the image of the invisible God, the Firstborn of all creation,
Col. 1:16 Because in Him all things were created, in the heavens and on the earth, the visible and the invisible, whether thrones or lordships or rulers or authorities; all things have been created through Him and unto Him.
Col. 1:17 And He is before all things, and all things cohere in Him;
Col. 1:18 And He is the Head of the Body, the church; He is the beginning, the Firstborn from the dead, that He Himself might have the first place in all things;
Col. 1:19 For in Him all the fullness was pleased to dwell
Col. 1:20 And through Him to reconcile all things to Himself, having made peace through the blood of His cross — through Him, whether the things on the earth or the things in the heavens.
Col. 1:21 And you, though once alienated and enemies in your mind because of your evil works,
Col. 1:22 He now has reconciled in the body of His flesh through death, to present you holy and without blemish and without reproach before Him;
Col. 1:23 If indeed you continue in the faith, grounded and steadfast and not being moved away from the hope of the gospel, which you heard, which was proclaimed in all creation under heaven, of which I Paul became a minister.
Col. 1:24 I now rejoice in my sufferings on your behalf and fill up on my part that which is lacking of the afflictions of Christ in my flesh for His Body, which is the church;
Col. 1:25 Of which I became a minister according to the stewardship of God, which was given to me for you, to complete the word of God,
Col. 1:26 The mystery which has been hidden from the ages and from the generations but now has been manifested to His saints;
Col. 1:27 To whom God willed to make known what are the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory,
Col. 1:28 Whom we announce, admonishing every man and teaching every man in all wisdom that we may present every man full-grown in Christ;
Col. 1:29 For which also I labor, struggling according to His operation which operates in me in power.


Colossians Chapter 2
Col. 2:1 For I want you to know how great a struggle I have for you and for those in Laodicea, even all who have not seen my face in the flesh,
Col. 2:2 That their hearts may be comforted, they being knit together in love and unto all the riches of the full assurance of understanding, unto the full knowledge of the mystery of God, Christ,
Col. 2:3 In whom all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge are hidden.
Col. 2:4 This I say that no one may delude you with persuasive speech.
Col. 2:5 For even though I am absent in the flesh, yet in the spirit I am with you, rejoicing and seeing your order and the solid basis of your faith in Christ.
Col. 2:6 As therefore you have received the Christ, Jesus the Lord, walk in Him,
Col. 2:7 Having been rooted and being built up in Him, and being established in the faith even as you were taught, abounding in thanksgiving.
Col. 2:8 Beware that no one carries you off as spoil through his philosophy and empty deceit, according to the tradition of men, according to the elements of the world, and not according to Christ;
Col. 2:9 For in Him dwells all the fullness of the Godhead bodily,
Col. 2:10 And you have been made full in Him, who is the Head of all rule and authority.
Col. 2:11 In Him also you were circumcised with a circumcision not made with hands, in the putting off of the body of the flesh, in the circumcision of Christ,
Col. 2:12 Buried together with Him in baptism, in which also you were raised together with Him through the faith of the operation of God, who raised Him from the dead.
Col. 2:13 And you, though dead in your offenses and in the uncircumcision of your flesh, He made alive together with Him, having forgiven us all our offenses;
Col. 2:14 Wiping out the handwriting in ordinances, which was against us, which was contrary to us; and He has taken it out of the way, nailing it to the cross.
Col. 2:15 Stripping off the rulers and the authorities, He made a display of them openly, triumphing over them in it.
Col. 2:16 Let no one therefore judge you in eating and in drinking or in respect of a feast or of a new moon or of the Sabbath,
Col. 2:17 Which are a shadow of the things to come, but the body is of Christ.
Col. 2:18 Let no one defraud you by judging you unworthy of your prize, in self-chosen lowliness and the worship of the angels, dwelling on the things which he has seen, vainly puffed up by his mind set on the flesh,
Col. 2:19 And not holding the Head, out from whom all the Body, being richly supplied and knit together by means of the joints and sinews, grows with the growth of God.
Col. 2:20 If you died with Christ from the elements of the world, why, as living in the world, do you subject yourselves to ordinances:
Col. 2:21 Do not handle, nor taste, nor touch,
Col. 2:22 (Regarding things which are all to perish when used) according to the commandments and teachings of men?
Col. 2:23 Such things indeed have a reputation of wisdom in self-imposed worship and lowliness and severe treatment of the body, but are not of any value against the indulgence of the flesh.


Colossians Chapter 3
Col. 3:1 If therefore you were raised together with Christ, seek the things which are above, where Christ is, sitting at the right hand of God.
Col. 3:2 Set your mind on the things which are above, not on the things which are on the earth.
Col. 3:3 For you died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God.
Col. 3:4 When Christ our life is manifested, then you also will be manifested with Him in glory.
Col. 3:5 Put to death therefore your members which are on the earth: fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desire, and greediness, which is idolatry;
Col. 3:6 Because of which things the wrath of God is coming upon the sons of disobedience;
Col. 3:7 In which you also once walked, when you lived in these things.
Col. 3:8 But now, you also, put away all these things: wrath, anger, malice, blasphemy, foul abusive language out of your mouth.
Col. 3:9 Do not lie to one another, since you have put off the old man with his practices
Col. 3:10 And have put on the new man, which is being renewed unto full knowledge according to the image of Him who created him,
Col. 3:11 Where there cannot be Greek and Jew, circumcision and uncircumcision, barbarian, Scythian, slave, free man, but Christ is all and in all.
Col. 3:12 Put on therefore, as God’s chosen ones, holy and beloved, inward parts of compassion, kindness, lowliness, meekness, long-suffering;
Col. 3:13 Bearing one another and forgiving one another, if anyone should have a complaint against anyone; even as the Lord forgave you, so also should you forgive.
Col. 3:14 And over all these things put on love, which is the uniting bond of perfectness.
Col. 3:15 And let the peace of Christ arbitrate in your hearts, to which also you were called in one Body; and be thankful.
Col. 3:16 Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another with psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to God.
Col. 3:17 And whatever you do in word or in deed, do all things in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through Him.
Col. 3:18 Wives, be subject to your husbands, as is fitting in the Lord.
Col. 3:19 Husbands, love your wives and do not be bitter against them.
Col. 3:20 Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing in the Lord.
Col. 3:21 Fathers, do not vex your children, that they may not be disheartened.
Col. 3:22 Slaves, obey in all things those who are your masters according to the flesh, not with eye-service as men-pleasers, but in singleness of heart fearing the Lord.
Col. 3:23 Whatever you do, work from the soul as to the Lord and not to men,
Col. 3:24 Knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as recompense. You serve the Lord Christ.
Col. 3:25 For he who does unrighteously will receive what he unrighteously did, and there is no respect of persons.


Colossians Chapter 4
Col. 4:1 Masters, grant to your slaves that which is just and equal, knowing that you also have a Master in heaven.
Col. 4:2 Persevere in prayer, watching in it with thanksgiving,
Col. 4:3 Praying at the same time for us also, that God would open to us a door for the word, to speak the mystery of Christ (because of which also I am bound),
Col. 4:4 That I may make it manifest as I ought to speak.
Col. 4:5 Walk in wisdom toward those who are without, redeeming the time.
Col. 4:6 Let your speech be always with grace, seasoned with salt, that you may know how you ought to answer each one.
Col. 4:7 All the things concerning me, Tychicus, the beloved brother and faithful minister and fellow slave in the Lord, will make known to you,
Col. 4:8 Whom I have sent to you for this very thing, that you might know the things concerning us and that he might comfort your hearts;
Col. 4:9 With Onesimus, the faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you. They will make known to you all the things here.
Col. 4:10 Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, greets you, as well as Mark, the cousin of Barnabas (concerning whom you received commandments, If he comes to you, receive him),
Col. 4:11 And Jesus, who is called Justus; these alone of the circumcision are my fellow workers for the kingdom of God, ones who have become a consolation to me.
Col. 4:12 Epaphras, who is one of you, a slave of Christ Jesus, greets you, always struggling on your behalf in his prayers that you may stand mature and fully assured in all the will of God.
Col. 4:13 For I testify of him that he labors much for you and for those in Laodicea and for those in Hierapolis.
Col. 4:14 Luke, the beloved physician, greets you, as well as Demas.
Col. 4:15 Greet the brothers in Laodicea, as well as Nymphas and the church, which is in his house.
Col. 4:16 And when this letter is read among you, cause that it be read in the church of the Laodiceans also, and that you also read the one from Laodicea.
Col. 4:17 And say to Archippus, Take heed to the ministry which you have received in the Lord, that you fulfill it.
Col. 4:18 The greeting in my own hand — Paul. Remember my bonds. Grace be with you.


The First Epistle of Paul to the Thessalonians
Subject:
A Holy Life for the Church Life — Serving the Living God, Conducting Ourselves in a Holy Manner, and Waiting for the Lord’s Coming 
1 Thessalonians Chapter 1
1 Thes. 1:1 Paul and Silvanus and Timothy to the church of the Thessalonians in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ: Grace to you and peace.
1 Thes. 1:2 We thank God always concerning all of you, making mention of you in our prayers,
1 Thes. 1:3 Remembering unceasingly your work of faith and labor of love and endurance of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ, before our God and Father;
1 Thes. 1:4 Knowing, brothers, beloved of God, your selection;
1 Thes. 1:5 For our gospel did not come to you in word only, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit and in much assurance, even as you know what kind of men we were among you for your sake.
1 Thes. 1:6 And you became imitators of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction with joy of the Holy Spirit,
1 Thes. 1:7 So that you became a pattern to all those who believe in Macedonia and in Achaia.
1 Thes. 1:8 For from you the word of the Lord has sounded out; not only in Macedonia and in Achaia, but in every place, your faith toward God has gone out, so that we have no need of saying anything.
1 Thes. 1:9 For they themselves report concerning us what kind of entrance we had toward you and how you turned to God from the idols to serve a living and true God
1 Thes. 1:10 And await His Son from the heavens, whom He raised from the dead, Jesus, who delivers us from the wrath which is coming.


1 Thessalonians Chapter 2
1 Thes. 2:1 For you yourselves know, brothers, our entrance toward you, that it has not been in vain.
1 Thes. 2:2 But having suffered previously and having been outrageously treated, even as you know, in Philippi, we were bold in our God to speak to you the gospel of God in much struggle.
1 Thes. 2:3 For our exhortation is not out of deception nor out of uncleanness nor in guile;
1 Thes. 2:4 But even as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, so we speak, not as pleasing men but God, who proves our hearts.
1 Thes. 2:5 For neither were we found at any time with flattering speech, even as you know, nor with a pretext for covetousness; God is witness.
1 Thes. 2:6 Nor did we seek glory from men, neither from you nor from others, though we could have stood on our authority as apostles of Christ.
1 Thes. 2:7 But we were gentle in your midst, as a nursing mother would cherish her own children.
1 Thes. 2:8 Yearning in this way over you, we were well pleased to impart to you not only the gospel of God but also our own souls, because you became beloved to us.
1 Thes. 2:9 For you remember, brothers, our labor and hardship: While working night and day so as not to be burdensome to any of you, we proclaimed to you the gospel of God.
1 Thes. 2:10 You are witnesses, as well as God, how in a holy and righteous and blameless manner we conducted ourselves toward you who believe,
1 Thes. 2:11 Just as you know how we were to each one of you, as a father to his own children, exhorting you and consoling you and testifying,
1 Thes. 2:12 So that you might walk in a manner worthy of God, who calls you into His own kingdom and glory.
1 Thes. 2:13 And because of this we also thank God unceasingly that when you received the word of God, which you heard from us, you accepted it not as the word of men but even as it truly is, the word of God, which also operates in you who believe.
1 Thes. 2:14 For you, brothers, became imitators of the churches of God which are in Judea in Christ Jesus, for you also suffered the same things from your own countrymen, even as they also from the Jews,
1 Thes. 2:15 Who both killed the Lord Jesus and the prophets and drove us out; and they are not pleasing to God and are contrary to all men,
1 Thes. 2:16 In that they forbid us to speak to the Gentiles that they may be saved, so that they fill up their sins always. But wrath has come upon them to the uttermost.
1 Thes. 2:17 But we, brothers, having been bereaved of you for a little while, in presence, not in heart, were more abundantly eager with great desire to see your face.
1 Thes. 2:18 Therefore we wanted to come to you, indeed I Paul, both once and again, yet Satan hindered us.
1 Thes. 2:19 For what is our hope or joy or crown of boasting before our Lord Jesus at His coming? Are not even you?
1 Thes. 2:20 For you are our glory and joy.


1 Thessalonians Chapter 3
1 Thes. 3:1 Therefore when we could bear it no longer, we thought it good to be left in Athens alone,
1 Thes. 3:2 And we sent Timothy, our brother and God’s fellow worker in the gospel of Christ, to establish and encourage you for the sake of your faith,
1 Thes. 3:3 That no one would be shaken by these afflictions; for you yourselves know that we are appointed for this.
1 Thes. 3:4 For even when we were with you, we told you beforehand that we are to be afflicted, even as it also came to pass and you know.
1 Thes. 3:5 Because of this, when I also could bear it no longer, I sent to find out concerning your faith, lest perhaps the tempter had tempted you and our labor would be in vain.
1 Thes. 3:6 But Timothy, having just come to us from you and announcing the good news to us of your faith and love and that you have kind remembrance of us always and long to see us, just as we also you,
1 Thes. 3:7 Because of this we were comforted because of you, brothers, in all our necessity and affliction, through your faith;
1 Thes. 3:8 Because now we live if you stand firm in the Lord.
1 Thes. 3:9 For what thanks can we return to God concerning you for all the joy with which we rejoice because of you before our God,
1 Thes. 3:10 Night and day petitioning exceedingly so that we may see your face and complete the things that are lacking in your faith?
1 Thes. 3:11 Now may our God and Father Himself and our Lord Jesus make straight our path to you;
1 Thes. 3:12 And the Lord cause you to increase and abound in love to one another and to all, just as we also to you,
1 Thes. 3:13 So that He may establish your hearts blameless in holiness before our God and Father at the coming of our Lord Jesus with all His saints.


1 Thessalonians Chapter 4
1 Thes. 4:1 Furthermore, brothers, we ask and exhort you in the Lord Jesus that even as you received from us how you ought to walk and please God, even as indeed you do walk, that you abound still more.
1 Thes. 4:2 For you know what charges we gave you through the Lord Jesus.
1 Thes. 4:3 For this is the will of God, your sanctification: that you abstain from fornication;
1 Thes. 4:4 That each one of you know how to possess his own vessel in sanctification and honor,
1 Thes. 4:5 Not in the passion of lust, like the Gentiles who do not know God;
1 Thes. 4:6 That no one overstep and take advantage of his brother in the matter, because the Lord is the avenger concerning all these things, even as we also said before to you and solemnly charged.
1 Thes. 4:7 For God has not called us for uncleanness but in sanctification.
1 Thes. 4:8 Consequently, he who rejects, rejects not man but God, who also gives His Holy Spirit to you.
1 Thes. 4:9 Now concerning brotherly love, you have no need for me to write to you, for you yourselves are taught of God to love one another;
1 Thes. 4:10 For you also do this unto all the brothers in the whole of Macedonia. But we exhort you, brothers, to abound still more
1 Thes. 4:11 And to aspire to be quiet and attend to your own affairs and work with your hands, even as we charged you,
1 Thes. 4:12 That you may walk becomingly toward those outside and may have need of nothing.
1 Thes. 4:13 But we do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, concerning those who are sleeping, that you would not grieve even as also the rest who have no hope.
1 Thes. 4:14 For if we believe that Jesus died and rose, so also those who have fallen asleep through Jesus, God will bring with Him.
1 Thes. 4:15 For this we say to you by the word of the Lord, that we who are living, who are left remaining unto the coming of the Lord, shall by no means precede those who have fallen asleep;
1 Thes. 4:16 Because the Lord Himself, with a shout of command, with the voice of the archangel and with the trumpet of God, will descend from heaven, and the dead in Christ will rise first.
1 Thes. 4:17 Then we who are living, who are left remaining, will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air; and thus we will be always with the Lord.
1 Thes. 4:18 Therefore comfort one another with these words.


1 Thessalonians Chapter 5
1 Thes. 5:1 But concerning the times and the seasons, brothers, you have no need for anything to be written to you;
1 Thes. 5:2 For you yourselves know perfectly well that like a thief in the night, so the day of the Lord comes.
1 Thes. 5:3 When they say, Peace and security, then sudden destruction comes upon them, just as birth pangs to a woman with child; and they shall by no means escape.
1 Thes. 5:4 But you, brothers, are not in darkness that the day should overtake you like a thief;
1 Thes. 5:5 For you are all sons of light and sons of the day. We are not of the night nor of darkness.
1 Thes. 5:6 So then let us not sleep, as the rest do, but let us watch and be sober.
1 Thes. 5:7 For those who sleep, sleep during the night, and those who get drunk are drunk during the night;
1 Thes. 5:8 But since we are of the day, let us be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love and a helmet, the hope of salvation.
1 Thes. 5:9 For God did not appoint us to wrath but to the obtaining of salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ,
1 Thes. 5:10 Who died for us in order that whether we watch or sleep, we may live together with Him.
1 Thes. 5:11 Therefore comfort one another, and build up each one the other, even as you also do.
1 Thes. 5:12 Furthermore we ask you, brothers, to acknowledge those who labor among you and take the lead among you in the Lord and admonish you,
1 Thes. 5:13 And to regard them most highly in love because of their work. Be at peace among yourselves.
1 Thes. 5:14 And we exhort you, brothers, Admonish the disorderly, console the fainthearted, sustain the weak, be long-suffering toward all.
1 Thes. 5:15 See that no one repays anyone evil for evil, but always pursue what is good both for one another and for all.
1 Thes. 5:16 Always rejoice,
1 Thes. 5:17 Unceasingly pray,
1 Thes. 5:18 In everything give thanks; for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you.
1 Thes. 5:19 Do not quench the Spirit;
1 Thes. 5:20 Do not despise prophecies,
1 Thes. 5:21 But prove all things. Hold fast to what is good;
1 Thes. 5:22 Abstain from every kind of evil.
1 Thes. 5:23 And the God of peace Himself sanctify you wholly, and may your spirit and soul and body be preserved complete, without blame, at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
1 Thes. 5:24 Faithful is He who calls you, who also will do it.
1 Thes. 5:25 Brothers, pray also for us.
1 Thes. 5:26 Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss.
1 Thes. 5:27 I adjure you by the Lord to have this letter read to all the brothers.
1 Thes. 5:28 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.


The Second Epistle of Paul to the Thessalonians
Subject:
Encouragement and Correction concerning the Holy Life for the Church Life 
2 Thessalonians Chapter 1
2 Thes. 1:1 Paul and Silvanus and Timothy to the church of the Thessalonians in God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ:
2 Thes. 1:2 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
2 Thes. 1:3 We ought to thank God always concerning you, brothers, even as it is fitting, because your faith grows exceedingly and the love of each one of you all to one another is increasing,
2 Thes. 1:4 So that we ourselves boast in you among the churches of God concerning your endurance and faith in all your persecutions and the afflictions which you bear,
2 Thes. 1:5 A plain indication of the righteous judgment of God, that you may be accounted worthy of the kingdom of God, for which also you suffer;
2 Thes. 1:6 Since it is just with God to repay with affliction those afflicting you,
2 Thes. 1:7 And to you who are being afflicted, rest with us at the revelation of the Lord Jesus from heaven with the angels of His power, in flaming fire,
2 Thes. 1:8 Rendering vengeance to those who do not know God and to those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ.
2 Thes. 1:9 They will pay the penalty of eternal destruction from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of His strength
2 Thes. 1:10 When He comes to be glorified in His saints and to be marveled at in all those who have believed (because our testimony to you was believed) in that day.
2 Thes. 1:11 For which also we pray always concerning you, that our God may count you worthy of your calling and may fulfill in power your every good intention for goodness and your work of faith,
2 Thes. 1:12 So that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified in you, and you in Him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ.


2 Thessalonians Chapter 2
2 Thes. 2:1 Now we ask you, brothers, with regard to the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our gathering together to Him,
2 Thes. 2:2 That you be not quickly shaken in mind nor alarmed, neither by a spirit nor by word nor by a letter as if by us, to the effect that the day of the Lord has come.
2 Thes. 2:3 Let no one deceive you in any way, because it will not come unless the apostasy comes first and the man of lawlessness is revealed, the son of perdition,
2 Thes. 2:4 Who opposes and exalts himself above all that is called God or an object of worship, so that he sits in the temple of God, setting himself forth, saying that he is God.
2 Thes. 2:5 Do you not remember that while I was still with you, I said these things to you?
2 Thes. 2:6 And now you know that which restrains, so that he might be revealed in his own time.
2 Thes. 2:7 For it is the mystery of lawlessness that is now operating, but only until the one now restraining goes out of the way.
2 Thes. 2:8 And then the lawless one will be revealed (whom the Lord Jesus will slay by the breath of His mouth and bring to nothing by the manifestation of His coming),
2 Thes. 2:9 The coming of whom is according to Satan’s operation in all power and signs and wonders of a lie
2 Thes. 2:10 And in all deceit of unrighteousness among those who are perishing, because they did not receive the love of the truth that they might be saved.
2 Thes. 2:11 And because of this God sends to them an operation of error that they might believe the lie,
2 Thes. 2:12 So that all who have not believed the truth but have taken pleasure in unrighteousness might be judged.
2 Thes. 2:13 But we ought to thank God always concerning you, brothers beloved of the Lord, because God chose you from the beginning unto salvation in sanctification of the Spirit and belief of the truth,
2 Thes. 2:14 To which also He called you through our gospel unto the obtaining of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.
2 Thes. 2:15 So then, brothers, stand firm and hold to the things which were handed down to you and which you were taught, whether by word or by our letter.
2 Thes. 2:16 Now our Lord Jesus Christ Himself and God our Father, who has loved us and given us eternal comfort and good hope in grace,
2 Thes. 2:17 Comfort your hearts and establish you in every good work and word.


2 Thessalonians Chapter 3
2 Thes. 3:1 Finally, brothers, pray concerning us, that the word of the Lord may run and be glorified, even as it is also with you;
2 Thes. 3:2 And that we may be delivered from unreasonable and evil men, for the faith does not belong to all.
2 Thes. 3:3 But the Lord is faithful, who will establish you and guard you from the evil one.
2 Thes. 3:4 And we have confidence in the Lord concerning you that what we charge, you both are doing and will do.
2 Thes. 3:5 And the Lord direct your hearts into the love of God and into the endurance of Christ.
2 Thes. 3:6 Now we charge you, brothers, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you keep away from every brother walking disorderly and not according to the things which were handed down to you and which you received from us.
2 Thes. 3:7 For you yourselves know how you ought to imitate us, because we were not disorderly among you;
2 Thes. 3:8 Nor did we eat bread as a gift from anyone, but in labor and hardship we worked night and day so that we would not be burdensome to any of you;
2 Thes. 3:9 Not because we do not have the right, but in order that we might give ourselves to you as a pattern that you might imitate us.
2 Thes. 3:10 For even when we were with you, we gave you this charge, that if anyone does not want to work, neither should he eat.
2 Thes. 3:11 For we hear of some walking among you disorderly, doing no work at all, but being busybodies.
2 Thes. 3:12 Now such ones we charge and exhort in the Lord Jesus Christ to work with quietness and eat their own bread.
2 Thes. 3:13 But you, brothers, do not lose heart in doing good.
2 Thes. 3:14 And if anyone does not obey our word through this letter, mark this one so as not to mingle with him, in order that he may be ashamed.
2 Thes. 3:15 Yet do not regard him as an enemy, but admonish him as a brother.
2 Thes. 3:16 Now the Lord of peace Himself give you peace continually in every way. The Lord be with you all.
2 Thes. 3:17 The greeting in my own hand — Paul — which is the mark in every letter; so I write.
2 Thes. 3:18 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.


The First Epistle of Paul to Timothy
Subject:
God’s Economy concerning the Church 
1 Timothy Chapter 1
1 Tim. 1:1 Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus according to the command of God our Savior and of Christ Jesus our hope,
1 Tim. 1:2 To Timothy, genuine child in faith: Grace, mercy, peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
1 Tim. 1:3 Even as I exhorted you, when I was going into Macedonia, to remain in Ephesus in order that you might charge certain ones not to teach different things
1 Tim. 1:4 Nor to give heed to myths and unending genealogies, which produce questionings rather than God’s economy, which is in faith.
1 Tim. 1:5 But the end of the charge is love out of a pure heart and out of a good conscience and out of unfeigned faith;
1 Tim. 1:6 From which things some, having misaimed, have turned aside to vain talking,
1 Tim. 1:7 Desiring to be teachers of the law, though they understand neither the things that they say, nor concerning what they confidently affirm.
1 Tim. 1:8 But we know that the law is good, if one uses it lawfully
1 Tim. 1:9 And knows this, that the law is not enacted for a righteous man but for the lawless and unruly, for the ungodly and sinners, for the unholy and profane, for those who strike their fathers and those who strike their mothers, for murderers,
1 Tim. 1:10 For fornicators, homosexuals, kidnappers, liars, perjurers, and whatever other thing that is opposed to the healthy teaching,
1 Tim. 1:11 According to the gospel of the glory of the blessed God, with which I was entrusted.
1 Tim. 1:12 I give thanks to Him who empowers me, Christ Jesus our Lord, that He has counted me faithful, appointing me to the ministry,
1 Tim. 1:13 Who formerly was a blasphemer and a persecutor and an insulting person; but I was shown mercy because, being ignorant, I acted in unbelief.
1 Tim. 1:14 And the grace of our Lord superabounded with faith and love in Christ Jesus.
1 Tim. 1:15 Faithful is the word and worthy of all acceptance, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am foremost.
1 Tim. 1:16 But because of this I was shown mercy, that in me, the foremost, Jesus Christ might display all His long-suffering for a pattern to those who are to believe on Him unto eternal life.
1 Tim. 1:17 Now to the King of the ages, incorruptible, invisible, the only God, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen.
1 Tim. 1:18 This charge I commit to you, my child Timothy, according to the prophecies previously made concerning you, that by them you might war the good warfare,
1 Tim. 1:19 Holding faith and a good conscience, concerning which some, thrusting these away, have become shipwrecked regarding the faith;
1 Tim. 1:20 Of whom are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have delivered to Satan that they may be disciplined not to blaspheme.


1 Timothy Chapter 2
1 Tim. 2:1 I exhort therefore, first of all, that petitions, prayers, intercessions, thanksgivings be made on behalf of all men;
1 Tim. 2:2 On behalf of kings and all who are in high position, that we may lead a quiet and tranquil life in all godliness and gravity.
1 Tim. 2:3 This is good and acceptable in the sight of our Savior God,
1 Tim. 2:4 Who desires all men to be saved and to come to the full knowledge of the truth.
1 Tim. 2:5 For there is one God and one Mediator of God and men, the man Christ Jesus,
1 Tim. 2:6 Who gave Himself as a ransom for all, the testimony to be borne in its own times.
1 Tim. 2:7 For which I was appointed a herald and an apostle (I speak the truth; I do not lie), a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth.
1 Tim. 2:8 I desire therefore that men pray in every place, lifting up holy hands, without wrath and reasoning;
1 Tim. 2:9 Similarly, that women adorn themselves in proper clothing with modesty and sobriety, not with braided hair and gold or pearls or costly clothing,
1 Tim. 2:10 But, what befits women professing godly reverence, by good works.
1 Tim. 2:11 Let a woman learn in quietness in all subjection;
1 Tim. 2:12 But I do not permit a woman to teach or to assert authority over a man, but to be in quietness.
1 Tim. 2:13 For Adam was formed first, then Eve;
1 Tim. 2:14 And Adam was not deceived; but the woman, having been quite deceived, has fallen into transgression.
1 Tim. 2:15 But she will be saved through her childbearing, if they remain in faith and love and holiness with sobriety.


1 Timothy Chapter 3
1 Tim. 3:1 Faithful is the word: If anyone aspires to the overseership, he desires a good work.
1 Tim. 3:2 The overseer then must be without reproach, the husband of one wife, temperate, of a sober mind, orderly, hospitable, apt to teach;
1 Tim. 3:3 Not an excessive drinker; not a striker, but forbearing; not contentious; not fond of money;
1 Tim. 3:4 One who manages well his own house, having his children in subjection with all gravity
1 Tim. 3:5 (But if one does not know how to manage his own house, how will he care for the church of God?);
1 Tim. 3:6 Not a new convert, lest being blinded with pride he fall into the judgment suffered by the devil.
1 Tim. 3:7 And he also must have a good testimony from those outside, that he may not fall into reproach and the snare of the devil.
1 Tim. 3:8 Deacons must similarly be grave, not double-tongued, not addicted to much wine, not greedy for base gain;
1 Tim. 3:9 Holding the mystery of the faith in a pure conscience.
1 Tim. 3:10 And these also must first be proved; then let them minister if they are unreprovable.
1 Tim. 3:11 Women similarly must be grave, not slanderers, temperate, faithful in all things.
1 Tim. 3:12 Deacons must be husbands of one wife, managing their children and their own houses well.
1 Tim. 3:13 For those who have ministered well obtain for themselves a good standing and much boldness in faith, which is in Christ Jesus.
1 Tim. 3:14 These things I write to you, hoping to come to you shortly.
1 Tim. 3:15 But if I delay, I write that you may know how one ought to conduct himself in the house of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and base of the truth.
1 Tim. 3:16 And confessedly, great is the mystery of godliness: He who was manifested in the flesh, Justified in the Spirit, Seen by angels, Preached among the nations, Believed on in the world, Taken up in glory.


1 Timothy Chapter 4
1 Tim. 4:1 But the Spirit says expressly that in later times some will depart from the faith, giving heed to deceiving spirits and teachings of demons
1 Tim. 4:2 By means of the hypocrisy of men who speak lies, of men who are branded in their own conscience as with a hot iron,
1 Tim. 4:3 Who forbid marriage and command abstaining from foods, which God has created to be partaken of with thanksgiving by those who believe and have full knowledge of the truth.
1 Tim. 4:4 For every creature of God is good, and nothing is to be rejected if received with thanksgiving;
1 Tim. 4:5 For it is sanctified through the word of God and intercession.
1 Tim. 4:6 If you lay these things before the brothers, you will be a good minister of Christ Jesus, being nourished with the words of the faith and of the good teaching which you have closely followed.
1 Tim. 4:7 But the profane and old-womanish myths refuse, and exercise yourself unto godliness.
1 Tim. 4:8 For bodily exercise is profitable for a little, but godliness is profitable for all things, having promise of the present life and of that which is to come.
1 Tim. 4:9 Faithful is the word and worthy of all acceptance.
1 Tim. 4:10 For to this end we labor and strive, because we have set our hope on the living God, who is the Savior of all men, especially of those who believe.
1 Tim. 4:11 Charge and teach these things.
1 Tim. 4:12 Let no one despise your youth, but be a pattern to the believers in word, in conduct, in love, in faith, in purity.
1 Tim. 4:13 Until I come, attend to the public reading, to the exhortation, to the teaching.
1 Tim. 4:14 Do not neglect the gift which is in you, which was given to you by means of prophecy with the laying on of the hands of the presbytery.
1 Tim. 4:15 Practice these things; be in them, that your progress may be manifest to all.
1 Tim. 4:16 Take heed to yourself and to your teaching; continue in these things; for in doing this you will save both yourself and those who hear you.


1 Timothy Chapter 5
1 Tim. 5:1 Do not upbraid an elderly man, but exhort him as a father, younger men as brothers,
1 Tim. 5:2 Elderly women as mothers, younger women as sisters, in all purity.
1 Tim. 5:3 Honor widows who are really widows.
1 Tim. 5:4 But if any widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn to show respect toward their own household and to render a return to their parents; for this is acceptable in the sight of God.
1 Tim. 5:5 Now she who is really a widow and is left alone has set her hope on God and continues in petitions and prayers night and day.
1 Tim. 5:6 But she who gives herself to pleasure is dead while living.
1 Tim. 5:7 These things also charge, that they may be without reproach.
1 Tim. 5:8 But if anyone does not provide for his own, and especially for those of his household, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever.
1 Tim. 5:9 Let a widow be enrolled, not under sixty years old, having been the wife of one man,
1 Tim. 5:10 Well attested for good works, if she has brought up children, if she has shown hospitality to strangers, if she has washed the saints’ feet, if she has assisted the afflicted, if she has diligently followed every good work.
1 Tim. 5:11 But younger widows refuse; for when they follow their passions in disregard of Christ, they desire to marry,
1 Tim. 5:12 And thus have condemnation because they have set aside their first pledge.
1 Tim. 5:13 And at the same time they also learn to be idle, going around from house to house; and they are not only idle but also gossips and busybodies, speaking things which they ought not.
1 Tim. 5:14 I will therefore that younger widows marry, bear children, keep house, give no opportunity to the opposer for reproach;
1 Tim. 5:15 For already some have turned aside after Satan.
1 Tim. 5:16 If any believing woman has widows in her family, let her assist them, and let not the church be burdened, that it may assist those who are really widows.
1 Tim. 5:17 Let the elders who take the lead well be counted worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in word and teaching.
1 Tim. 5:18 For the Scripture says, “You shall not muzzle an ox that is treading out the grain,” and, “The workman is worthy of his pay.”
1 Tim. 5:19 Against an elder do not receive an accusation, except based upon two or three witnesses.
1 Tim. 5:20 The ones who sin reprove before all that the rest also may have fear.
1 Tim. 5:21 I solemnly charge you before God and Christ Jesus and the chosen angels that you keep these things without prejudice, doing nothing by way of partiality.
1 Tim. 5:22 Lay hands quickly on no man, nor participate in others’ sins; keep yourself pure.
1 Tim. 5:23 No longer drink water only, but use a little wine for the sake of your stomach and your frequent illnesses.
1 Tim. 5:24 The sins of some men are openly manifest, going before to judgment; and for others, they also follow after.
1 Tim. 5:25 Likewise also the good works are openly manifest, and those that are otherwise cannot be hidden.


1 Timothy Chapter 6
1 Tim. 6:1 As many as are slaves under the yoke should regard their own masters as worthy of all honor, lest the name of God and our teaching be blasphemed.
1 Tim. 6:2 And those who have believing masters should not despise them, because they are brothers; but rather they should serve them, because those who recompense them for the kindly service received are believers and beloved. These things teach and exhort.
1 Tim. 6:3 If anyone teaches different things and does not consent to healthy words, those of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the teaching which is according to godliness,
1 Tim. 6:4 He is blinded with pride, understanding nothing, but is diseased with questionings and contentions of words, out of which come envy, strife, slanders, evil suspicions,
1 Tim. 6:5 Perpetual wranglings of men corrupted in mind and deprived of the truth, supposing godliness to be a means of gain.
1 Tim. 6:6 But godliness with contentment is great gain;
1 Tim. 6:7 For we have brought nothing into the world, because neither can we carry anything out.
1 Tim. 6:8 But having food and covering, with these we will be content.
1 Tim. 6:9 But those who intend to be rich fall into temptation and a snare and many foolish and harmful desires, which plunge men into destruction and ruin.
1 Tim. 6:10 For the love of money is a root of all evils, because of which some, aspiring after money, have been led away from the faith and pierced themselves through with many pains.
1 Tim. 6:11 But you, O man of God, flee these things, and pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love, endurance, meekness.
1 Tim. 6:12 Fight the good fight of the faith; lay hold on the eternal life, to which you were called and have confessed the good confession before many witnesses.
1 Tim. 6:13 I charge you before God, who preserves all things in life, and Christ Jesus, who testified the good confession before Pontius Pilate,
1 Tim. 6:14 To keep the commandment spotless, without reproach, until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ,
1 Tim. 6:15 Which in its own times the blessed and only Sovereign will show, the King of those who reign as kings and Lord of those who rule as lords,
1 Tim. 6:16 Who alone has immortality, dwelling in unapproachable light, whom no man has seen nor can see, to whom be honor and eternal might. Amen.
1 Tim. 6:17 Charge those who are rich in the present age not to be high-minded, nor to set their hope on the uncertainty of riches but on God, who affords us all things richly for our enjoyment;
1 Tim. 6:18 To do good, to be rich in good works, to be ready to distribute, to be ones willing to share;
1 Tim. 6:19 Laying away for themselves a good foundation as a treasure for the future, that they may lay hold on that which is really life.
1 Tim. 6:20 O Timothy, guard the deposit, turning away from profane, vain babblings and oppositions from what is falsely called knowledge,
1 Tim. 6:21 Because of which some, professing this, have misaimed regarding the faith. Grace be with you.


The Second Epistle of Paul to Timothy
Subject:
Inoculation against the Decline of the Church 
2 Timothy Chapter 1
2 Tim. 1:1 Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God according to the promise of life, which is in Christ Jesus,
2 Tim. 1:2 To Timothy, beloved child: Grace, mercy, peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
2 Tim. 1:3 I thank God, whom I serve from my forefathers in a pure conscience, while unceasingly I have remembrance concerning you in my petitions night and day,
2 Tim. 1:4 Longing to see you, remembering your tears, that I may be filled with joy;
2 Tim. 1:5 Having been reminded of the unfeigned faith in you, which dwelt first in your grandmother Lois and your mother Eunice, and I am persuaded dwells also in you.
2 Tim. 1:6 For which cause I remind you to fan into flame the gift of God, which is in you through the laying on of my hands.
2 Tim. 1:7 For God has not given us a spirit of cowardice, but of power and of love and of sobermindedness.
2 Tim. 1:8 Therefore do not be ashamed of the testimony of our Lord nor of me His prisoner; but suffer evil with the gospel according to the power of God;
2 Tim. 1:9 Who has saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works but according to His own purpose and grace, which was given to us in Christ Jesus before the times of the ages
2 Tim. 1:10 But now has been manifested through the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus, who nullified death and brought life and incorruption to light through the gospel,
2 Tim. 1:11 For which I was appointed a herald and an apostle and a teacher.
2 Tim. 1:12 For which cause also I suffer these things; but I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed, and I am persuaded that He is able to guard my deposit unto that day.
2 Tim. 1:13 Hold a pattern of the healthy words that you have heard from me, in the faith and love which are in Christ Jesus.
2 Tim. 1:14 Guard the good deposit through the Holy Spirit who dwells in us.
2 Tim. 1:15 This you know, that all who are in Asia turned away from me, of whom are Phygelus and Hermogenes.
2 Tim. 1:16 May the Lord grant mercy to the house of Onesiphorus, for he often refreshed me and was not ashamed of my chain;
2 Tim. 1:17 But being in Rome, he sought me out diligently and found me.
2 Tim. 1:18 May the Lord grant him to find mercy from the Lord in that day. And in how many things he served me in Ephesus, you know best.


2 Timothy Chapter 2
2 Tim. 2:1 You therefore, my child, be empowered in the grace which is in Christ Jesus;
2 Tim. 2:2 And the things which you have heard from me through many witnesses, these commit to faithful men, who will be competent to teach others also.
2 Tim. 2:3 Suffer evil with me as a good soldier of Christ Jesus.
2 Tim. 2:4 No one serving as a soldier entangles himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please the one who enlisted him.
2 Tim. 2:5 And also if anyone contends in the games, he is not crowned unless he contends lawfully.
2 Tim. 2:6 The laboring farmer must be the first to partake of the fruit.
2 Tim. 2:7 Consider what I say, for the Lord will give you understanding in all things.
2 Tim. 2:8 Remember Jesus Christ, raised from the dead, of the seed of David, according to my gospel,
2 Tim. 2:9 In which I suffer evil unto bonds as a criminal; but the word of God is not bound.
2 Tim. 2:10 Therefore I endure all things for the sake of the chosen ones, that they themselves also may obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory.
2 Tim. 2:11 Faithful is the word: For if we died with Him, we will also live with Him;
2 Tim. 2:12 If we endure, we will also reign with Him; if we deny Him, He also will deny us;
2 Tim. 2:13 If we are faithless, He remains faithful, for He cannot deny Himself.
2 Tim. 2:14 Remind them of these things, solemnly charging them before God not to have contentions of words, which is useful for nothing, to the ruin of those who hear.
2 Tim. 2:15 Be diligent to present yourself approved to God, an unashamed workman, cutting straight the word of the truth.
2 Tim. 2:16 But avoid profane, vain babblings, for they will advance to more ungodliness,
2 Tim. 2:17 And their word will spread like gangrene, of whom are Hymenaeus and Philetus,
2 Tim. 2:18 Who concerning the truth have misaimed, saying that the resurrection has already taken place, and overthrow the faith of some.
2 Tim. 2:19 However the firm foundation of God stands, having this seal, The Lord knows those who are His, and, Let everyone who names the name of the Lord depart from unrighteousness.
2 Tim. 2:20 But in a great house there are not only gold and silver vessels but also wooden and earthen; and some are unto honor, and some unto dishonor.
2 Tim. 2:21 If therefore anyone cleanses himself from these, he will be a vessel unto honor, sanctified, useful to the master, prepared unto every good work.
2 Tim. 2:22 But flee youthful lusts, and pursue righteousness, faith, love, peace with those who call on the Lord out of a pure heart.
2 Tim. 2:23 But foolish questionings and those arising from an untrained mind refuse, knowing that they beget contentions.
2 Tim. 2:24 But a slave of the Lord ought not to contend but be gentle toward all, apt to teach, bearing with wrong;
2 Tim. 2:25 In meekness correcting those who oppose, if perhaps God may give them repentance unto the full knowledge of the truth,
2 Tim. 2:26 And they may return to soberness out of the snare of the devil, having been caught alive by him, unto His will.

2 Timothy Chapter 3
2 Tim. 3:1 But know this, that in the last days difficult times will come.
2 Tim. 3:2 For men will be lovers of self, lovers of money, boasters, arrogant, revilers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy,
2 Tim. 3:3 Without natural affection, implacable, slanderers, without self-control, savage, not lovers of good,
2 Tim. 3:4 Traitors, reckless, blinded with pride, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God,
2 Tim. 3:5 Having an outward form of godliness, though denying its power; from these also turn away.
2 Tim. 3:6 For of these are those who creep into houses and take captive silly women heaped with sins, who are led by various desires
2 Tim. 3:7 And are always learning yet never able to come to the full knowledge of the truth.
2 Tim. 3:8 And in the manner that Jannes and Jambres opposed Moses, so these also oppose the truth; men corrupted in mind, disapproved concerning the faith.
2 Tim. 3:9 But they will not advance farther, for their folly will be completely manifest to all, as also the folly of those became.
2 Tim. 3:10 But you have closely followed my teaching, conduct, purpose, faith, long-suffering, love, endurance,
2 Tim. 3:11 Persecutions, sufferings, such as befell me in Antioch, in Iconium, in Lystra. Such persecutions I bore, and out of them all the Lord delivered me.
2 Tim. 3:12 And indeed all who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will be persecuted.
2 Tim. 3:13 But evil men and impostors will grow worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived.
2 Tim. 3:14 But you, continue in the things which you have learned and have been assured of, knowing from which ones you have learned them
2 Tim. 3:15 And that from a babe you have known the sacred writings, which are able to make you wise unto salvation through the faith which is in Christ Jesus.
2 Tim. 3:16 All Scripture is God-breathed and profitable for teaching, for conviction, for correction, for instruction in righteousness,
2 Tim. 3:17 That the man of God may be complete, fully equipped for every good work.

2 Timothy Chapter 4
2 Tim. 4:1 I solemnly charge you before God and Christ Jesus, who is to judge the living and the dead, and by His appearing and His kingdom:
2 Tim. 4:2 Proclaim the word; be ready in season and out of season; convict, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and teaching.
2 Tim. 4:3 For the time will come when they will not tolerate the healthy teaching; but according to their own lusts they will heap up to themselves teachers, having itching ears,
2 Tim. 4:4 And they will turn away their ear from the truth and will be turned aside to myths.
2 Tim. 4:5 But you, be sober in all things, suffer evil, do the work of an evangelist, fully accomplish your ministry.
2 Tim. 4:6 For I am already being poured out, and the time of my departure is at hand.
2 Tim. 4:7 I have fought the good fight; I have finished the course; I have kept the faith.
2 Tim. 4:8 Henceforth there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, with which the Lord, the righteous Judge, will recompense me in that day, and not only me but also all those who have loved His appearing.
2 Tim. 4:9 Be diligent to come to me quickly;
2 Tim. 4:10 For Demas has abandoned me, having loved the present age, and has gone to Thessalonica; Crescens to Galatia; Titus to Dalmatia.
2 Tim. 4:11 Luke alone is with me. Take Mark and bring him with you, for he is useful to me for the ministry.
2 Tim. 4:12 But Tychicus I have sent to Ephesus.
2 Tim. 4:13 The cloak which I left in Troas with Carpus, bring when you come, and the scrolls, especially the parchments.
2 Tim. 4:14 Alexander the coppersmith did many evil things to me; the Lord will recompense him according to his works.
2 Tim. 4:15 You also guard against him, for he greatly opposed our words.
2 Tim. 4:16 At my first defense no one was with me to support me, but all abandoned me. May it not be counted against them.
2 Tim. 4:17 But the Lord stood with me and empowered me that through me the proclamation of the gospel might be fully accomplished and all the Gentiles might hear; and I was delivered out of the lion’s mouth.
2 Tim. 4:18 The Lord will deliver me from every evil work and will save me into His heavenly kingdom, to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
2 Tim. 4:19 Greet Prisca and Aquila and the house of Onesiphorus.
2 Tim. 4:20 Erastus remained in Corinth, and Trophimus I left at Miletus sick.
2 Tim. 4:21 Be diligent to come before winter. Eubulus greets you, as well as Pudens and Linus and Claudia and all the brothers.
2 Tim. 4:22 The Lord be with your spirit. Grace be with you.


The Epistle of Paul to Titus
Subject:
The Maintenance of Order in the Church
Titus Chapter 1
Titus 1:1 Paul, a slave of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ according to the faith of God’s chosen ones and the full knowledge of the truth, which is according to godliness,
Titus 1:2 In the hope of eternal life, which God, who cannot lie, promised before the times of the ages,
Titus 1:3 But in its own times He manifested it as His word in the proclamation with which I was entrusted according to the command of our Savior God;
Titus 1:4 To Titus, genuine child according to the common faith: Grace and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Savior.
Titus 1:5 For this cause I left you in Crete, that you might set in order the things which I have begun that remain and appoint elders in every city, as I directed you:
Titus 1:6 If anyone is unreprovable, the husband of one wife, having believing children not accused of dissoluteness or unruly.
Titus 1:7 For the overseer must be unreprovable as a steward of God, not self-willed, not quick tempered, not an excessive drinker, not a striker, not greedy for base gain;
Titus 1:8 But hospitable, a lover of good, of a sober mind, righteous, holy, self-controlled;
Titus 1:9 Holding to the faithful word, which is according to the teaching of the apostles, that he may be able both to exhort by the healthy teaching and to convict those who oppose.
Titus 1:10 For there are many unruly men, vain talkers and deceivers, especially those of the circumcision,
Titus 1:11 Whose mouths must be stopped, who overthrow whole households, teaching things for the sake of base gain, which they ought not to do.
Titus 1:12 One from among themselves, a prophet of their own, said, Cretans are always liars, evil beasts, idle gluttons.
Titus 1:13 This testimony is true; for which cause reprove them severely that they may be healthy in the faith,
Titus 1:14 Not paying attention to Jewish myths and the commandments of men who turn away from the truth.
Titus 1:15 All things are pure to the pure; yet to those who are defiled and unbelieving nothing is pure, but both their mind and their conscience are defiled.
Titus 1:16 They profess to know God, but by their works they deny Him, being abominable and disobedient and, as to every good work, disapproved.

Titus Chapter 2
Titus 2:1 But you, speak the things which are fitting to the healthy teaching.
Titus 2:2 Exhort older men to be temperate, grave, of a sober mind, healthy in faith, in love, in endurance;
Titus 2:3 Older women likewise to be in demeanor as befits those who engage in sacred things, not slanderers, nor enslaved by much wine, teachers of what is good,
Titus 2:4 That they may train the young women to love their husbands, to love their children,
Titus 2:5 To be of a sober mind, pure, workers at home, good, subject to their own husbands, that the word of God would not be blasphemed.
Titus 2:6 The younger men likewise exhort to be of a sober mind,
Titus 2:7 Concerning all things presenting yourself as a pattern of good works: in your teaching showing incorruption, gravity,
Titus 2:8 Healthy speech that cannot be condemned, that he who opposes may be put to shame, having nothing evil to say about us.
Titus 2:9 Exhort slaves to be subject to their own masters in all things, to be well pleasing, not contradicting,
Titus 2:10 Not pilfering, but showing all good faithfulness that they may adorn the teaching of our Savior God in all things.
Titus 2:11 For the grace of God, bringing salvation to all men, has appeared,
Titus 2:12 Training us that, denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live soberly and righteously and godly in the present age,
Titus 2:13 Awaiting the blessed hope, even the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ,
Titus 2:14 Who gave Himself for us that He might redeem us from all lawlessness and purify to Himself a particular people as His unique possession, zealous of good works.
Titus 2:15 These things speak, and exhort and convict with all authority. Let no one despise you.

Titus Chapter 3
Titus 3:1 Remind them to be subject to rulers, to authorities, to be obedient, to be ready unto every good work,
Titus 3:2 To slander no one, to be uncontentious, forbearing, showing all meekness toward all men.
Titus 3:3 For we also were once foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving as slaves various lusts and pleasures, spending our lives in malice and envy, hateful, hating one another.
Titus 3:4 But when the kindness and the love to man of our Savior God appeared,
Titus 3:5 Not out of works in righteousness which we did but according to His mercy He saved us, through the washing of regeneration and the renewing of the Holy Spirit,
Titus 3:6 Whom He poured out upon us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior,
Titus 3:7 In order that having been justified by His grace, we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life.
Titus 3:8 Faithful is the word, and concerning these things I desire you to confidently affirm, so that those who have believed in God may be careful to maintain respectable works. These things are good and profitable to men.
Titus 3:9 But avoid foolish questionings and genealogies and strifes and contentions about the law, for they are unprofitable and vain.
Titus 3:10 A factious man, after a first and second admonition, refuse,
Titus 3:11 Knowing that such a one is perverted and is sinning, though he is condemned by his own self.
Titus 3:12 When I send Artemas to you or Tychicus, be diligent to come to me at Nicopolis, for I have decided to spend the winter there.
Titus 3:13 Zenas the lawyer and Apollos send forward diligently that nothing may be lacking to them.
Titus 3:14 And let those also who are ours learn to maintain respectable works for their necessary needs, that they may not be unfruitful.
Titus 3:15 All who are with me greet you. Greet those who love us in faith. Grace be with you all.


The Epistle of Paul to Philemon
Subject:
An Illustration of the Believers’ Equal Status in the New Man
Philemon Chapter 1
Philem. 1 Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus, and Timothy the brother, to Philemon our beloved and fellow worker
Philem. 2 And to Apphia the sister and to Archippus our fellow soldier and to the church, which is in your house:
Philem. 3 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Philem. 4 I thank my God always, making mention of you in my prayers,
Philem. 5 Hearing of your love and the faith which you have toward the Lord Jesus and to all the saints,
Philem. 6 That the fellowship of your faith may become effective in the full knowledge of every good thing which is in you for Christ.
Philem. 7 For I had much joy and encouragement over your love, because the inward parts of the saints have been refreshed through you, brother.
Philem. 8 Therefore though I have much boldness in Christ to charge you what is fitting,
Philem. 9 Because of love I rather entreat, being such a one as Paul the aged and now also a prisoner of Christ Jesus.
Philem. 10 I entreat you concerning my child, whom I have begotten in my bonds, Onesimus,
Philem. 11 Who formerly was useless to you but now is useful both to you and to me.
Philem. 12 Him I have sent back to you — him, that is, my very heart —
Philem. 13 Whom I intended to keep with myself that on your behalf he might minister to me in the bonds of the gospel.
Philem. 14 But without your mind I did not want to do anything, that your goodness would not be as of necessity, but voluntary.
Philem. 15 For perhaps for this reason he was separated from you for but an hour, that you might fully have him forever,
Philem. 16 No longer as a slave, but above a slave, a beloved brother, especially to me, but how much more to you, both in the flesh and in the Lord.
Philem. 17 If then you hold me as a partner, receive him as myself.
Philem. 18 And if he has wronged you in anything or owes anything, charge that to my account.
Philem. 19 I, Paul, have written with my own hand: I will repay; not to say to you that you owe me even your own self besides.
Philem. 20 Yes, brother, may I have profit from you in the Lord; refresh my inward parts in Christ.
Philem. 21 Having confidence in your obedience, I have written to you, knowing that you will do even beyond the things that I say.
Philem. 22 And at the same time also prepare me a lodging, for I hope that through your prayers I will be graciously given to you.
Philem. 23 Epaphras, my fellow prisoner in Christ Jesus, greets you;
Philem. 24 As do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, Luke, my fellow workers.
Philem. 25 The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.

The Epistle to the Hebrews
Subject:
Christ Being Superior to Judaism and Everything Related to It, and the New Covenant Which He Consummated Being Better than the Old Covenant
Hebrews Chapter 1
Heb. 1:1 God, having spoken of old in many portions and in many ways to the fathers in the prophets,
Heb. 1:2 Has at the last of these days spoken to us in the Son, whom He appointed Heir of all things, through whom also He made the universe;
Heb. 1:3 Who, being the effulgence of His glory and the impress of His substance and upholding and bearing all things by the word of His power, having made purification of sins, sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on high;
Heb. 1:4 Having become as much better than the angels as to have inherited a more distinguished name than they.
Heb. 1:5 For to which of the angels has He ever said, “You are My Son; this day have I begotten You”? And again, “I will be a Father to Him, and He will be a Son to Me”?
Heb. 1:6 And when He brings again the Firstborn into the inhabited earth, He says, “And let all the angels of God worship Him.”
Heb. 1:7 And of the angels He says, “Who makes His angels winds and His ministers a flame of fire”;
Heb. 1:8 But of the Son, “Your throne, O God, is forever and ever, and the scepter of uprightness is the scepter of Your kingdom.
Heb. 1:9 You have loved righteousness and hated lawlessness; therefore God, Your God, has anointed You with the oil of exultant joy above Your partners”;
Heb. 1:10 And, “You in the beginning, Lord, laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the works of Your hands;
Heb. 1:11 They will perish, but You remain perpetually; and they all will become old like a garment,
Heb. 1:12 And like a mantle You will roll them up; like a garment they will also be changed; but You are the same, and Your years will not fail.”
Heb. 1:13 But to which of the angels has He ever said, “Sit at My right hand until I set Your enemies as a footstool for Your feet”?
Heb. 1:14 Are they not all ministering spirits, sent forth for service for the sake of those who are to inherit salvation?

Hebrews Chapter 2
Heb. 2:1 Therefore we ought to give heed more abundantly to the things which have been heard lest perhaps we drift away.
Heb. 2:2 For if the word spoken through angels proved firm and every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense,
Heb. 2:3 How shall we escape if we have neglected so great a salvation, which, having had its beginning in being spoken by the Lord, has been confirmed to us by those who heard,
Heb. 2:4 God bearing witness with them both by signs and wonders and by various works of power and by distributions of the Holy Spirit according to His will?
Heb. 2:5 For it was not to angels that He subjected the coming inhabited earth, concerning which we speak.
Heb. 2:6 But one has solemnly testified somewhere, saying, “What is man, that You bring him to mind? Or the son of man, that You care for him?
Heb. 2:7 You have made Him a little inferior to the angels; You have crowned Him with glory and honor and have set Him over the works of Your hands;
Heb. 2:8 You have subjected all things under His feet.” For in subjecting all things to Him, He left nothing unsubject to Him. But now we do not yet see all things subjected to Him,
Heb. 2:9 But we see Jesus, who was made a little inferior to the angels because of the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honor, so that by the grace of God He might taste death on behalf of everything.
Heb. 2:10 For it was fitting for Him, for whom are all things and through whom are all things, in leading many sons into glory, to make the Author of their salvation perfect through sufferings.
Heb. 2:11 For both He who sanctifies and those who are being sanctified are all of One, for which cause He is not ashamed to call them brothers,
Heb. 2:12 Saying, “I will declare Your name to My brothers; in the midst of the church I will sing hymns of praise to You.”
Heb. 2:13 And again, “I will trust in Him.” And again, “Behold, I and the children whom God has given to Me.”
Heb. 2:14 Since therefore the children have shared in blood and flesh, He also Himself in like manner partook of the same, that through death He might destroy him who has the might of death, that is, the devil,
Heb. 2:15 And might release those who because of the fear of death through all their life were held in slavery.
Heb. 2:16 For assuredly it is not to angels that He gives help, but He gives help to the seed of Abraham.
Heb. 2:17 Hence He should have been made like His brothers in all things that He might become a merciful and faithful High Priest in the things pertaining to God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people.
Heb. 2:18 For being tempted in that which He Himself has suffered, He is able to help those who are being tempted.

Hebrews Chapter 3
Heb. 3:1 Therefore, holy brothers, partakers of a heavenly calling, consider the Apostle and High Priest of our confession, Jesus,
Heb. 3:2 Who was faithful to Him who constituted Him, as also Moses was in all His house.
Heb. 3:3 For He has been counted worthy of more glory than Moses, by as much as He who built the house has more honor than the house.
Heb. 3:4 For every house is built by someone, but He who built all things is God.
Heb. 3:5 And Moses was faithful in all His house as a servant, for a testimony of the things to be spoken later;
Heb. 3:6 But Christ was faithful as a Son over His house, whose house we are if indeed we hold fast the boldness and the boast of hope firm to the end.
Heb. 3:7 Therefore, even as the Holy Spirit says, “Today if you hear His voice,
Heb. 3:8 Do not harden your hearts as in the provocation, in the day of trial in the wilderness,
Heb. 3:9 Where your fathers tried Me by testing Me and saw My works for forty years.
Heb. 3:10 Therefore I was displeased with this generation, and I said, They always go astray in their heart, and they have not known My ways;
Heb. 3:11 As I swore in My wrath, They shall not enter into My rest!”
Heb. 3:12 Beware, brothers, lest perhaps there be in any one of you an evil heart of unbelief in falling away from the living God.
Heb. 3:13 But exhort one another each day, as long as it is called “today,” lest any one of you be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin —
Heb. 3:14 For we have become partners of Christ, if indeed we hold fast the beginning of the assurance firm to the end —
Heb. 3:15 While it is said, “Today if you hear His voice, do not harden your hearts as in the provocation.”
Heb. 3:16 For who provoked Him when they heard? Indeed was it not all who came out of Egypt by Moses?
Heb. 3:17 And with whom was He displeased for forty years? Was it not with those who sinned, whose carcasses fell in the wilderness?
Heb. 3:18 And to whom did He swear that they should not enter into His rest, except to the disobedient?
Heb. 3:19 And we see that they were not able to enter in because of unbelief.

Hebrews Chapter 4
Heb. 4:1 Let us fear therefore, lest, a promise being left of entering into His rest, any one of you may seem to have come short of it.
Heb. 4:2 For indeed we have had the good news announced to us, even as they also; but the word heard did not profit them, not being mixed together with faith in those who heard.
Heb. 4:3 For we who have believed enter into the rest, even as He has said, “As I swore in My wrath, They shall not enter into My rest!” although the works of creation were completed from the foundation of the world.
Heb. 4:4 For He has spoken somewhere concerning the seventh day thus, “And God rested on the seventh day from all His works.”
Heb. 4:5 And in this place again, “They shall not enter into My rest!”
Heb. 4:6 Since therefore it remains that some should enter into it and those who formerly had the good news announced to them did not enter because of disobedience,
Heb. 4:7 He again designates a certain day, today, saying in David after so long a time, even as was said before, “Today, if you hear His voice, do not harden your hearts.”
Heb. 4:8 For if Joshua had brought them into rest, He would not have spoken concerning another day after these things.
Heb. 4:9 So then there remains a Sabbath rest for the people of God.
Heb. 4:10 For he who has entered into His rest has himself also rested from his works, as God did from His own.
Heb. 4:11 Let us therefore be diligent to enter into that rest lest anyone fall after the same example of disobedience.
Heb. 4:12 For the word of God is living and operative and sharper than any two-edged sword, and piercing even to the dividing of soul and spirit and of joints and marrow, and able to discern the thoughts and intentions of the heart.
Heb. 4:13 And there is no creature that is not manifest before Him, but all things are naked and laid bare to the eyes of Him to whom we are to give our account.
Heb. 4:14 Having therefore a great High Priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast the confession.
Heb. 4:15 For we do not have a High Priest who cannot be touched with the feeling of our weaknesses, but One who has been tempted in all respects like us, yet without sin.
Heb. 4:16 Let us therefore come forward with boldness to the throne of grace that we may receive mercy and find grace for timely help.

Hebrews Chapter 5
Heb. 5:1 For every high priest, being taken from among men, is established on behalf of men in the things pertaining to God that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins.
Heb. 5:2 He is able to exercise compassion toward the ignorant and erring since he also is encompassed with weakness;
Heb. 5:3 And because of it, he ought, even as for the people, so also for himself, to offer for sins.
Heb. 5:4 And no one takes the honor upon himself, but only as he is called by God, just as Aaron also was.
Heb. 5:5 So also Christ did not glorify Himself in becoming a High Priest, but it was He who said to Him, “You are My Son; this day have I begotten You”;
Heb. 5:6 Even as also in another place He says, “You are a Priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek.”
Heb. 5:7 This One, in the days of His flesh, having offered up both petitions and supplications with strong crying and tears to Him who was able to save Him out of death and having been heard because of His piety,
Heb. 5:8 Even though He was a Son, learned obedience from the things which He suffered.
Heb. 5:9 And having been perfected, He became to all those who obey Him the source of eternal salvation,
Heb. 5:10 Being addressed by God as a High Priest according to the order of Melchizedek;
Heb. 5:11 Concerning whom we have much to say that is also difficult to interpret since you have become dull of hearing.
Heb. 5:12 For when because of the time you ought to be teachers, you have need again for someone to teach you what the rudiments of the beginning of the oracles of God are and have become those who have need of milk and not of solid food.
Heb. 5:13 For everyone who partakes of milk is inexperienced in the word of righteousness, for he is an infant;
Heb. 5:14 But solid food is for the full-grown, who because of practice have their faculties exercised for discriminating between both good and evil.

Hebrews Chapter 6
Heb. 6:1 Therefore leaving the word of the beginning of Christ, let us be brought on to maturity, not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works and of faith in God,
Heb. 6:2 Of the teaching of baptisms and of the laying on of hands, of the resurrection of the dead and of eternal judgment.
Heb. 6:3 And this we will do if God permits.
Heb. 6:4 For it is impossible for those who have once been enlightened and have tasted of the heavenly gift and have become partakers of the Holy Spirit
Heb. 6:5 And have tasted the good word of God and the powers of the age to come,
Heb. 6:6 And yet have fallen away, to renew themselves again unto repentance, crucifying again for themselves the Son of God and putting Him to open shame.
Heb. 6:7 For the earth, which drinks the rain which often comes upon it and produces vegetation suitable to those for whose sake also it is cultivated, partakes of blessing from God.
Heb. 6:8 But if it brings forth thorns and thistles, it is disapproved and near a curse, whose end is to be burned.
Heb. 6:9 But we are persuaded of better things concerning you, beloved, and things which belong to salvation, though we speak thus.
Heb. 6:10 For God is not unrighteous, so as to forget your work and the love which you have shown toward His name in having ministered to the saints and in ministering still.
Heb. 6:11 But we desire earnestly that each of you show the same diligence unto the full assurance of your hope until the end,
Heb. 6:12 That you may not be sluggish, but imitators of those who through faith and long-suffering are inheriting the promises.
Heb. 6:13 For God, when He made the promise to Abraham, since He could swear by no one greater, swore by Himself,
Heb. 6:14 Saying, “Surely blessing, I will bless you; and multiplying, I will multiply you.”
Heb. 6:15 And thus when Abraham had patiently endured, he obtained the promise.
Heb. 6:16 For men swear by the greater, and for all disputes among them an oath is final for confirmation.
Heb. 6:17 Therefore God, intending to show more abundantly to the heirs of the promise the unchangeableness of His counsel, interposed with an oath,
Heb. 6:18 In order that by two unchangeable things, in which it was impossible for God to lie, we may have strong encouragement, we who have fled for refuge to lay hold of the hope set before us,
Heb. 6:19 Which we have as an anchor of the soul, both secure and firm and which enters within the veil,
Heb. 6:20 Where the Forerunner, Jesus, has entered for us, having become forever a High Priest according to the order of Melchizedek.

Hebrews Chapter 7
Heb. 7:1 For this Melchizedek, king of Salem, priest of the Most High God, who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings and blessed him,
Heb. 7:2 To whom also Abraham apportioned a tenth part of all; first being interpreted king of righteousness, and then also king of Salem, which is king of peace;
Heb. 7:3 Being without father, without mother, without genealogy; having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but likened to the Son of God, abides a priest perpetually.
Heb. 7:4 And consider how great this one was, to whom the patriarch Abraham gave a tenth of the choice spoils.
Heb. 7:5 And they of the sons of Levi, who received the priestly service, have a commandment to take tithes from the people according to the law, that is, from their brothers, though they have come forth from the loins of Abraham.
Heb. 7:6 But he whose genealogy is not counted from them has taken tithes from Abraham and has blessed him who has the promises.
Heb. 7:7 But without any dispute the lesser is blessed by the greater.
Heb. 7:8 And here men, who die, receive tithes; but there, one of whom it is testified that he lives.
Heb. 7:9 And, so to speak, through Abraham, Levi also, he who receives tithes, has been made to pay tithes,
Heb. 7:10 For he was still in the loins of his father when Melchizedek met him.
Heb. 7:11 If indeed then perfection were through the Levitical priesthood (for under it the people have received the law), what need was there still that a different Priest should arise according to the order of Melchizedek and that He should not be said to be according to the order of Aaron?
Heb. 7:12 For since the priesthood is transferred, of necessity there comes into being a transfer of law also.
Heb. 7:13 For He of whom these things are said belongs to a different tribe, from which no one has attended to the altar.
Heb. 7:14 For it is evident that our Lord has risen out of Judah, concerning which tribe Moses spoke nothing about priests.
Heb. 7:15 And it is still more abundantly evident since it is according to the likeness of Melchizedek that a different Priest arises,
Heb. 7:16 Who has been appointed not according to the law of a fleshy commandment but according to the power of an indestructible life.
Heb. 7:17 For it is testified, “You are a Priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek.”
Heb. 7:18 For there is, on the one hand, the setting aside of the preceding commandment because of its weakness and unprofitableness
Heb. 7:19 (For the law perfected nothing), and, on the other hand, the bringing in thereupon of a better hope, through which we draw near to God.
Heb. 7:20 And inasmuch as He was not made a Priest without the taking of an oath
Heb. 7:21 (For they are appointed priests without the taking of an oath, but He, with the taking of an oath by Him who said to Him, “The Lord has sworn and will not regret it, You are a Priest forever”),
Heb. 7:22 By so much Jesus has also become the surety of a better covenant.
Heb. 7:23 And they are appointed priests many in number because death prevents them from continuing;
Heb. 7:24 But He, because He abides forever, has His priesthood unalterable.
Heb. 7:25 Hence also He is able to save to the uttermost those who come forward to God through Him, since He lives always to intercede for them.
Heb. 7:26 For such a High Priest was also fitting to us, holy, guileless, undefiled, separated from sinners and having become higher than the heavens,
Heb. 7:27 Who does not have daily need, as the high priests do, to offer up sacrifices first for his own sins and then for those of the people; for this He did once for all when He offered up Himself.
Heb. 7:28 For the law establishes men as high priests who have weakness, but the word of the oath, which was after the law, establishes the Son, perfected forever.

Hebrews Chapter 8
Heb. 8:1 Now in the things which are being said the chief point is this: We have such a High Priest, who sat down on the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in the heavens,
Heb. 8:2 A Minister of the holy places, even of the true tabernacle, which the Lord pitched, not man.
Heb. 8:3 For every high priest is established for the offering of both gifts and sacrifices; hence it is necessary that this One also have something which He may offer.
Heb. 8:4 Now then if He were on earth, He would not be a Priest at all, there being those who offer the gifts according to the law,
Heb. 8:5 Who serve the example and shadow of the heavenly things, even as Moses was divinely instructed when he was about to complete the tabernacle; for, “See,” He said, “that you make all things according to the pattern that was shown to you in the mountain.”
Heb. 8:6 But now He has obtained a more excellent ministry inasmuch as He is also the Mediator of a better covenant, which has been enacted upon better promises.
Heb. 8:7 For if that first covenant had been faultless, no place would have been sought for a second.
Heb. 8:8 For finding fault with them He says, “Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, and I will consummate a new covenant upon the house of Israel and upon the house of Judah,
Heb. 8:9 Not according to the covenant which I made with their fathers in the day when I took them by their hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt, because they did not continue in My covenant, and I disregarded them, says the Lord.
Heb. 8:10 For this is the covenant which I will covenant with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord: I will impart My laws into their mind, and on their hearts I will inscribe them; and I will be God to them, and they will be a people to Me.
Heb. 8:11 And they shall by no means each teach his fellow citizen and each his brother, saying, Know the Lord; for all will know Me from the little one to the great one among them.
Heb. 8:12 For I will be propitious to their unrighteousnesses, and their sins I shall by no means remember anymore.”
Heb. 8:13 In saying, A new covenant, He has made the first old. But that which is becoming old and growing decrepit is near to disappearing.

Hebrews Chapter 9
Heb. 9:1 Now then the first covenant also had ordinances of service, and its sanctuary was of this world.
Heb. 9:2 For a tabernacle was prepared, the first, in which were the lampstand and the table and the loaves that were set forth, which is called the Holy Place;
Heb. 9:3 And after the second veil, a tabernacle, which is called the Holy of Holies,
Heb. 9:4 Having a golden altar and the Ark of the Covenant covered about everywhere with gold, in which were the golden pot that had the manna and Aaron’s rod that budded and the tablets of the covenant,
Heb. 9:5 And above it cherubim of glory overshadowing the expiation cover, concerning which it is not now the time to speak in detail.
Heb. 9:6 Now these things having been thus prepared, into the first tabernacle the priests enter continually, accomplishing their worship;
Heb. 9:7 But into the second, only the high priest enters, once a year and not without blood, which he offers for himself and for the sins of ignorance of the people,
Heb. 9:8 The Holy Spirit thus making this clear, that the way of the Holy of Holies has not yet been manifested while the first tabernacle still has its standing,
Heb. 9:9 Which is a figure for the present time. According to this tabernacle both gifts and sacrifices are offered, which are unable to perfect, according to conscience, him who worships,
Heb. 9:10 Consisting only of foods and drinks and various washings, being ordinances of the flesh, imposed until the time of setting things right.
Heb. 9:11 But Christ, having come as a High Priest of the good things that have come into being, through the greater and more perfect tabernacle not made by hands, that is, not of this creation,
Heb. 9:12 And not through the blood of goats and calves but through His own blood, entered once for all into the Holy of Holies, obtaining an eternal redemption.
Heb. 9:13 For if the blood of goats and bulls and the ashes of a heifer sprinkling those who are defiled sanctify to the purity of the flesh,
Heb. 9:14 How much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered Himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience from dead works to serve the living God?
Heb. 9:15 And because of this He is the Mediator of a new covenant, so that, death having taken place for redemption of the transgressions under the first covenant, those who have been called might receive the promise of the eternal inheritance.
Heb. 9:16 For where there is a testament, the death of him who made the testament must of necessity be established.
Heb. 9:17 For a testament is confirmed in the case of the dead, since it never has force when he who made the testament is living.
Heb. 9:18 Hence neither was the first covenant initiated without blood;
Heb. 9:19 For when every commandment according to the law had been spoken by Moses to all the people, he took the blood of the calves and the goats, with water and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the scroll of the covenant itself and all the people,
Heb. 9:20 Saying, “This is the blood of the covenant which God has commanded to you.”
Heb. 9:21 And both the tabernacle and all the vessels of the service he sprinkled in like manner with the blood.
Heb. 9:22 And almost all things are purified by blood according to the law, and without shedding of blood there is no forgiveness.
Heb. 9:23 It was necessary therefore for the examples of the things in the heavens to be purified by these, but the heavenly things themselves, by better sacrifices than these.
Heb. 9:24 For Christ did not enter into a holy place made by hands, a figure of the true, but into heaven itself, to appear now before the face of God for us;
Heb. 9:25 Nor in order that He might offer Himself often, just as the high priest enters into the Holy of Holies year by year by the blood of other creatures;
Heb. 9:26 Since then He would have had to suffer often since the foundation of the world. But now once at the consummation of the ages He has been manifested for the putting away of sin through the sacrifice of Himself.
Heb. 9:27 And inasmuch as it is reserved for men to die once, and after this comes judgment,
Heb. 9:28 So Christ also, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time to those who eagerly await Him, apart from sin, unto salvation.

Hebrews Chapter 10
Heb. 10:1 For the law, having a shadow of the good things to come, not the image itself of the things, can never by the same sacrifices year by year, which they offer continually, perfect those who draw near.
Heb. 10:2 Otherwise would they not have ceased to be offered, because those worshipping, having once been purified, would have no longer had the consciousness of sins?
Heb. 10:3 But in those sacrifices there is a bringing to mind of sins year by year;
Heb. 10:4 For it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins.
Heb. 10:5 Therefore, coming into the world, He says, “Sacrifice and offering You did not desire, but a body You have prepared for Me.
Heb. 10:6 In burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin You did not delight.
Heb. 10:7 Then I said, Behold, I have come (in the roll of the book it is written concerning Me) to do Your will, O God.”
Heb. 10:8 Saying above, “Sacrifices and offerings and burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin You did not desire nor delight in” (which are offered according to the law),
Heb. 10:9 He then has said, “Behold, I have come to do Your will.” He takes away the first that He may establish the second,
Heb. 10:10 By which will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
Heb. 10:11 And every priest stands daily, ministering and offering often the same sacrifices, which can never remove sins;
Heb. 10:12 But this One, having offered one sacrifice for sins, sat down forever on the right hand of God,
Heb. 10:13 Henceforth waiting until His enemies are made the footstool for His feet.
Heb. 10:14 For by one offering He has perfected forever those who are being sanctified.
Heb. 10:15 And the Holy Spirit also testifies to us, for after having said,
Heb. 10:16 “This is the covenant which I will covenant with them after those days, says the Lord: I will impart My laws upon their hearts, and upon their mind I will inscribe them,”
Heb. 10:17 He then says, “And their sins and their lawlessnesses I shall by no means remember anymore.”
Heb. 10:18 Now where forgiveness of these is, there is no longer an offering for sin.
Heb. 10:19 Having therefore, brothers, boldness for entering the Holy of Holies in the blood of Jesus,
Heb. 10:20 Which entrance He initiated for us as a new and living way through the veil, that is, His flesh,
Heb. 10:21 And having a great Priest over the house of God,
Heb. 10:22 Let us come forward to the Holy of Holies with a true heart in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and having our bodies washed with pure water.
Heb. 10:23 Let us hold fast the confession of our hope unwavering, for He who has promised is faithful;
Heb. 10:24 And let us consider one another so as to incite one another to love and good works,
Heb. 10:25 Not abandoning our own assembling together, as the custom with some is, but exhorting one another; and so much the more as you see the day drawing near.
Heb. 10:26 For when we sin willfully after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains a sacrifice of bulls and goats for sins,
Heb. 10:27 But a certain fearful expectation of judgment and fervor of fire, which is to consume the adversaries.
Heb. 10:28 Anyone who has set aside the law of Moses dies without compassion on the testimony of two or three witnesses.
Heb. 10:29 By how much do you think he will be thought worthy of worse punishment who has trampled underfoot the Son of God and has considered the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified a common thing and has insulted the Spirit of grace?
Heb. 10:30 For we know Him who said, “Vengeance is Mine; I will repay”; and again, “The Lord will judge His people.”
Heb. 10:31 It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
Heb. 10:32 But call to mind the former days, in which, having been enlightened, you endured a great conflict of sufferings;
Heb. 10:33 On one hand, being made a spectacle both in reproaches and in afflictions, and on the other, having become partakers with those who are treated the same.
Heb. 10:34 For you both sympathized with those in bonds and accepted with joy the plundering of your possessions, knowing that you yourselves have a better possession and one that abides.
Heb. 10:35 Do not cast away therefore your boldness, which has great reward.
Heb. 10:36 For you have need of endurance in order that, having done the will of God, you may obtain the promise.
Heb. 10:37 “For in yet a very little while the Coming One will come and will not delay.
Heb. 10:38 But My righteous one shall live by faith; and if he shrinks back, My soul does not delight in him.”
Heb. 10:39 But we are not of those who shrink back to ruin but of those who have faith to the gaining of the soul.

Hebrews Chapter 11
Heb. 11:1 Now faith is the substantiation of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen.
Heb. 11:2 For in this the elders have obtained a good testimony.
Heb. 11:3 By faith we understand that the universe has been framed by the word of God, so that what is seen has not come into being out of things which appear.
Heb. 11:4 By faith Abel offered to God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, through which he obtained the testimony that he was righteous, God testifying to his gifts; and through faith, though he has died, he still speaks.
Heb. 11:5 By faith Enoch was translated so that he should not see death; and he was not found, because God had translated him. For before his translation he obtained the testimony that he had been well pleasing to God.
Heb. 11:6 But without faith it is impossible to be well pleasing to Him, for he who comes forward to God must believe that He is and that He is a rewarder of those who diligently seek Him.
Heb. 11:7 By faith Noah, having been divinely instructed concerning things not yet seen and being moved by pious fear, prepared an ark for the salvation of his house, through which he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness which is according to faith.
Heb. 11:8 By faith Abraham, being called, obeyed to go out unto a place which he was to receive as an inheritance; and he went out, not knowing where he was going.
Heb. 11:9 By faith he dwelt as a foreigner in the land of promise as in a foreign land, making his home in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the fellow heirs of the same promise;
Heb. 11:10 For he eagerly waited for the city which has the foundations, whose Architect and Builder is God.
Heb. 11:11 By faith also Sarah herself received power to conceive seed, even beyond the season of age, since she considered Him faithful who promised.
Heb. 11:12 Therefore also there were born of one, and that of him who had become dead, as many as even the stars of heaven in multitude and as the sand by the seashore innumerable.
Heb. 11:13 All these died in faith, not receiving the promises but seeing them from afar and joyfully greeting them and confessing that they were strangers and sojourners on the earth.
Heb. 11:14 For those who say such things make it manifest that they seek after a country of their own.
Heb. 11:15 And if indeed they continued to remember that country from which they went out, they would have had opportunity to return;
Heb. 11:16 But as it is, they long after a better country, that is, a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed of them, to be called their God, for He has prepared a city for them.
Heb. 11:17 By faith Abraham, being tested, offered up Isaac; indeed he who gladly received the promises was offering up his only begotten,
Heb. 11:18 Of whom it was said, “In Isaac shall your seed be called”;
Heb. 11:19 Counting that God was able to raise men even from the dead, from which he also received him back in figure.
Heb. 11:20 By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau, even concerning things to come.
Heb. 11:21 By faith Jacob, while he was dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph and worshipped God, while leaning on the top of his staff.
Heb. 11:22 By faith Joseph, nearing his end, made mention of the exodus of the sons of Israel and gave orders concerning his bones.
Heb. 11:23 By faith Moses, when he was born, was hidden for three months by his parents because they saw that the child was lovely, and they did not fear the king’s decree.
Heb. 11:24 By faith Moses, when he had grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh’s daughter,
Heb. 11:25 Choosing rather to be ill-treated with the people of God than to have the temporary enjoyment of sin,
Heb. 11:26 Considering the reproach of the Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt; for he looked away to the reward.
Heb. 11:27 By faith he left Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he persevered as one seeing the unseen One.
Heb. 11:28 By faith he instituted the Passover and the pouring out of the blood so that the one destroying the firstborn would not touch them.
Heb. 11:29 By faith they passed through the Red Sea as through dry land, in which the Egyptians, while making the attempt, were swallowed up.
Heb. 11:30 By faith the walls of Jericho fell, having been encircled for a period of seven days.
Heb. 11:31 By faith Rahab the harlot did not perish with those who were disobedient, since she had received the spies with peace.
Heb. 11:32 And what more shall I say? For time will fail me if I tell of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, of David and Samuel and the prophets,
Heb. 11:33 Who through faith overcame kingdoms, worked righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions,
Heb. 11:34 Quenched the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, were made strong in weakness, became mighty in war, routed the armies of foreigners.
Heb. 11:35 Women received their dead by resurrection; and others were tortured to death, not accepting deliverance, in order that they might obtain a better resurrection.
Heb. 11:36 And still others underwent the trial of mockings and scourgings, even, moreover, of bonds and imprisonment.
Heb. 11:37 They were stoned, they were sawn in two, they were tempted, they died by the murder of the sword, they wandered about in sheepskins, in goatskins, destitute, afflicted, ill-treated
Heb. 11:38 (Of whom the world was not worthy), wandering over deserts and mountains and in caves and holes of the earth.
Heb. 11:39 And these all, having obtained a good testimony through their faith, did not obtain the promise,
Heb. 11:40 Because God has provided something better for us, so that apart from us they would not be made perfect.

Hebrews Chapter 12
Heb. 12:1 Therefore let us also, having so great a cloud of witnesses surrounding us, put away every encumbrance and the sin which so easily entangles us and run with endurance the race which is set before us,
Heb. 12:2 Looking away unto Jesus, the Author and Perfecter of our faith, who for the joy set before Him endured the cross, despising the shame, and has sat down on the right hand of the throne of God.
Heb. 12:3 For compare Him who has endured such contradiction by sinners against Himself, so that you may not grow weary, fainting in your souls.
Heb. 12:4 You have not yet resisted unto blood, struggling against sin,
Heb. 12:5 And you have completely forgotten the exhortation which reasons with you as with sons, “My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor faint when reproved by Him;
Heb. 12:6 For whom the Lord loves He disciplines, and He scourges every son whom He receives.”
Heb. 12:7 It is for discipline that you endure; God deals with you as with sons. For what son is there whom the father does not discipline?
Heb. 12:8 But if you are without discipline, of which all sons have become partakers, then you are illegitimate and not sons.
Heb. 12:9 Furthermore we have had the fathers of our flesh as discipliners and we respected them; shall we not much more be in subjection to the Father of spirits and live?
Heb. 12:10 For they disciplined for a few days as it seemed good to them; but He, for what is profitable that we might partake of His holiness.
Heb. 12:11 Now no discipline at the present time seems to be a matter of joy, but of grief; but afterward it yields the peaceable fruit of righteousness to those who have been exercised by it.
Heb. 12:12 Therefore set straight the hands which hang down and the paralyzed knees,
Heb. 12:13 And make straight paths for your feet, that what is lame may not be put out of joint but rather may be healed.
Heb. 12:14 Pursue peace with all men and sanctification, without which no one will see the Lord;
Heb. 12:15 Looking carefully lest anyone fall away from the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and through this many be defiled;
Heb. 12:16 Lest there be any fornicator or profane person like Esau, who for one meal gave up his own birthright.
Heb. 12:17 For you know that also afterward, when he desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected; for he found no place for repentance, even though he sought it with tears.
Heb. 12:18 For you have not come forward to a mountain which could be touched and which was set on fire, and to darkness and gloom and whirlwind,
Heb. 12:19 And to the sound of a trumpet and to the voice of words, because of which those who heard entreated that no further word be spoken to them;
Heb. 12:20 For they could not bear that which was being commanded: “If even a beast touch the mountain, it shall be stoned.”
Heb. 12:21 And so fearful was the sight, Moses said, “I am full of fear and trembling.”
Heb. 12:22 But you have come forward to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem; and to myriads of angels, to the universal gathering;
Heb. 12:23 And to the church of the firstborn, who have been enrolled in the heavens; and to God, the Judge of all; and to the spirits of righteous men who have been made perfect;
Heb. 12:24 And to Jesus, the Mediator of a new covenant; and to the blood of sprinkling, which speaks something better than that of Abel.
Heb. 12:25 See that you do not refuse Him who speaks, for if those did not escape who refused Him who warned them upon the earth, much more we shall not escape who turn away from Him who warns from heaven,
Heb. 12:26 Whose voice at that time shook the earth but now has promised, saying, “Yet once more I will shake not only the earth but also heaven.”
Heb. 12:27 And this word, “Yet once more,” shows clearly the removal of the things being shaken as being of things having been made, that the things which are not shaken may remain.
Heb. 12:28 Therefore receiving an unshakable kingdom, let us have grace, through which we may serve God well-pleasingly with piety and fear;
Heb. 12:29 For our God is also a consuming fire.

Hebrews Chapter 13
Heb. 13:1 Let brotherly love continue.
Heb. 13:2 Do not forget hospitality, for through this some, without knowing it, have entertained angels.
Heb. 13:3 Remember those who are imprisoned as bound with them, those who are ill-treated as being yourselves also likewise treated in body.
Heb. 13:4 Let marriage be held in honor among all, and the bed undefiled; for fornicators and adulterers God will judge.
Heb. 13:5 Let your way of life be without the love of money, being satisfied with the things which are at hand; for He Himself has said, “I shall by no means give you up, neither by any means shall I abandon you”;
Heb. 13:6 So that being of good courage, we say, “The Lord is my Helper, and I will not fear. What shall man do to me?”
Heb. 13:7 Remember the ones leading you, who have spoken to you the word of God; and considering the issue of their manner of life, imitate their faith.
Heb. 13:8 Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today, yes, even forever.
Heb. 13:9 Do not be carried away by various strange teachings, for it is good for the heart to be confirmed by grace, not by the food of sacrifices, by which those who walk were not profited.
Heb. 13:10 We have an altar from which they who are serving the tabernacle have no right to eat.
Heb. 13:11 For the bodies of those animals whose blood is brought into the Holy of Holies for sin by the high priest are burned up outside the camp.
Heb. 13:12 Therefore also Jesus, that He might sanctify the people through His own blood, suffered outside the gate.
Heb. 13:13 Let us therefore go forth unto Him outside the camp, bearing His reproach.
Heb. 13:14 For we do not have here a remaining city, but we seek after the one to come.
Heb. 13:15 Through Him then let us offer up a sacrifice of praise continually to God, that is, the fruit of lips confessing His name.
Heb. 13:16 But do not forget doing good and sharing with others, for with such sacrifices God is well pleased.
Heb. 13:17 Obey the ones leading you and submit to them, for they watch over your souls as those who will render an account, that they may do this with joy and not groaning; for this would be unprofitable to you.
Heb. 13:18 Pray for us, for we are persuaded that we have a good conscience, desiring in all things to conduct ourselves honorably.
Heb. 13:19 And I exhort you much more to do this that I may be restored to you more quickly.
Heb. 13:20 Now the God of peace, He who brought up from the dead our Lord Jesus, the great Shepherd of the sheep, in the blood of an eternal covenant,
Heb. 13:21 Perfect you in every good work for the doing of His will, doing in us that which is well pleasing in His sight through Jesus Christ; to Him be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
Heb. 13:22 Now I beseech you, brothers, bear with the word of this exhortation, for indeed I have written to you in few words.
Heb. 13:23 Know that our brother Timothy has been released, with whom, if he comes soon, I will see you.
Heb. 13:24 Greet all the ones leading you and all the saints. Those from Italy greet you.
Heb. 13:25 Grace be with you all. Amen.

THE EPISTLE OF JAMES
Subject:
Practical Christian Perfection
James Chapter 1
James 1:1 James, a slave of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes in the dispersion: Rejoice!
James 1:2 Count it all joy, my brothers, whenever you fall into various trials,
James 1:3 Knowing that the proving of your faith works out endurance.
James 1:4 And let endurance have its perfect work that you may be perfect and entire, lacking in nothing.
James 1:5 But if any one of you lacks wisdom, let him ask of God, who gives to all liberally and does not reproach, and it will be given to him.
James 1:6 But let him ask in faith, doubting nothing, for he who doubts is like the surge of the sea, driven by the wind and tossed about.
James 1:7 For that man must not suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord;
James 1:8 He is a double-souled man, unstable in all his ways.
James 1:9 And let the lowly brother boast in his exaltation,
James 1:10 And the rich in his being brought low, because like a flower of the grass he will pass away.
James 1:11 For the sun rises with its scorching heat and withers the grass, and its flower falls off, and the beauty of its appearance is destroyed; so also the rich man will fade away in his pursuits.
James 1:12 Blessed is the man who endures trial, because when he has become approved by testing, he will receive the crown of life, which He promised to those who love Him.
James 1:13 Let no one say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God; for God cannot be tempted of evil, and He Himself tempts no one.
James 1:14 But each one is tempted when he is drawn away and enticed by his own lusts;
James 1:15 Then the lust, having conceived, gives birth to sin; and the sin, when it is fully grown, brings forth death.
James 1:16 Do not be deceived, my beloved brothers.
James 1:17 All good giving and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variation or shadow cast by turning.
James 1:18 He brought us forth by the word of truth, purposing that we might be a kind of firstfruits of His creatures.
James 1:19 You know this, my beloved brothers; but let every man be quick to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath;
James 1:20 For the wrath of man does not accomplish the righteousness of God.
James 1:21 Therefore putting away all filthiness and the abundance of malice, receive in meekness the implanted word, which is able to save your souls.
James 1:22 And become doers of the word and not hearers only, who delude themselves.
James 1:23 Because if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, this one is like a man considering in a mirror the face he was born with;
James 1:24 For he considers himself and goes away, and immediately forgets what kind of person he is.
James 1:25 But he who looks into the perfect law, the law of freedom, and continues in it, becoming not a forgetful hearer but a doer of the work, this one will be blessed in his doing.
James 1:26 If anyone thinks himself to be religious and yet does not bridle his tongue but deceives his heart, this one’s religion is vain.
James 1:27 This is pure and undefiled religion before our God and Father: to visit orphans and widows in their affliction and to keep oneself unspotted from the world.

James Chapter 2
James 2:1 My brothers, do not hold the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ of glory with respect of persons.
James 2:2 For if there comes into your synagogue a man with gold rings in splendid clothing, and there also comes in a poor man in filthy clothing,
James 2:3 And you look upon the one wearing the splendid clothing and say, You sit here in a good place, and to the poor man you say, You stand there, or sit under my footstool;
James 2:4 Have you not made distinctions among yourselves and become judges with evil reasonings?
James 2:5 Listen, my beloved brothers: Did not God choose the poor in the world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom, which He promised to those who love Him?
James 2:6 But you have dishonored the poor. Is it not the rich who oppress you and is it not they who drag you to the courts?
James 2:7 Is it not they who blaspheme the honorable name by which you are called?
James 2:8 If indeed you are fulfilling the royal law according to the Scripture, “You shall love your neighbor as yourself,” you do well;
James 2:9 But if you respect persons, you commit sin, being convicted by the law as transgressors.
James 2:10 For whoever keeps the whole law yet stumbles in one point has become guilty of all.
James 2:11 For He who said, Do not commit adultery, also said, Do not murder. Now if you do not commit adultery, but you murder, you have become a transgressor of the law.
James 2:12 So speak and so do as those who are to be judged by the law of freedom.
James 2:13 For the judgment is without mercy to him who has shown no mercy; mercy triumphs over judgment.
James 2:14 What is the profit, my brothers, if anyone says he has faith but does not have works? Can that faith save him?
James 2:15 If a brother or sister is without clothing and lacks daily food,
James 2:16 And any one of you says to them, Go in peace, be warmed and filled, yet you do not give them the necessities of the body, what is the profit?
James 2:17 So also faith, if it does not have works, is dead in itself.
James 2:18 But someone will say, You have faith, and I have works; show me your faith without the works, and I will show you my faith by my works.
James 2:19 You believe that God is one. You do well; the demons also believe and shudder.
James 2:20 But are you willing to know, O vain man, that faith without its works is useless?
James 2:21 Was not Abraham our father justified by works in that he offered up Isaac his son upon the altar?
James 2:22 You see that faith worked together with his works, and by these works faith was perfected.
James 2:23 And the Scripture was fulfilled which says, “And Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him as righteousness”; and he was called the friend of God.
James 2:24 You see that a man is justified by works and not by faith only.
James 2:25 And in like manner was not also Rahab the harlot justified by works in that she received the messengers and sent them out by a different way?
James 2:26 For just as the body without the spirit is dead, so also faith without works is dead.

James Chapter 3
James 3:1 Do not become many teachers, my brothers, knowing that we will receive greater judgment.
James 3:2 For in many things we all stumble. If anyone does not stumble in word, this one is a perfect man, able to bridle the whole body as well.
James 3:3 Now if we put bridles into the mouths of horses that they would obey us, we direct their whole body as well.
James 3:4 Behold, the ships also, though they are so great and are driven by rough winds, are directed by a very small rudder wherever the impulse of the pilot wills.
James 3:5 So also the tongue is a little member yet boasts great things. Behold, how great a forest so little a fire ignites!
James 3:6 And the tongue is a fire; the very world of unrighteousness, the tongue is set among our members as that which contaminates the whole body and sets on fire the course of life and is set on fire by Gehenna.
James 3:7 For every nature, both of beasts and of birds, both of reptiles and of creatures of the sea, is tamed and has been tamed by the human nature;
James 3:8 But the tongue no one among men is able to tame; it is a restless evil, full of deadly poison.
James 3:9 With it we bless the Lord and Father, and with it we curse men, who have been made according to the likeness of God.
James 3:10 Out of the same mouth come forth blessing and cursing. These things, my brothers, ought not to be so.
James 3:11 Does the spring, out of the same opening, gush forth the sweet and the bitter?
James 3:12 Can a fig tree, my brothers, produce olives? Or a vine, figs? Neither can salt water produce sweet.
James 3:13 Who is wise and understanding among you? Let him show by his good manner of life his works in meekness of wisdom.
James 3:14 But if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your heart, do not boast and lie against the truth.
James 3:15 This wisdom is not that which descends from above, but is earthly, soulish, demonic.
James 3:16 For where jealousy and selfish ambition are, there disorder and every worthless practice are.
James 3:17 But the wisdom from above is first pure, then peaceable, forbearing, compliant, full of mercy and good fruit, impartial, without hypocrisy.
James 3:18 And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace.

James Chapter 4
James 4:1 Where do wars and fightings among you come from? Are they not from this, from your pleasures that war in your members?
James 4:2 You lust and do not have; you murder and are jealous and are not able to obtain; you fight and make war. You do not have because you do not ask;
James 4:3 You ask and do not receive because you ask evilly that you may spend it on your pleasures.
James 4:4 Adulteresses, do you not know that the friendship of the world is enmity with God? Therefore whoever determines to be a friend of the world is constituted an enemy of God.
James 4:5 Or do you think that the Scripture says in vain: The Spirit, whom He has caused to dwell in us, longs unto envy?
James 4:6 But He gives greater grace; therefore it says, “God resists the proud but gives grace to the humble.”
James 4:7 Be subject therefore to God; but withstand the devil, and he will flee from you.
James 4:8 Draw near to God, and He will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-souled!
James 4:9 Endure misery and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned into mourning, and your joy into dejection.
James 4:10 Be humbled before the Lord, and He will exalt you.
James 4:11 Do not speak against one another, brothers. He who speaks against a brother or judges his brother speaks against the law and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law but a judge.
James 4:12 One is Lawgiver and Judge, who is able to save and destroy. But who are you who judge your neighbor?
James 4:13 Come now, you who say, Today or tomorrow we will go into this or that city and spend a year there and do business and make a profit;
James 4:14 Whereas you do not know the matter of tomorrow, what your life will be; for you are a vapor, which appears for a little while and then disappears.
James 4:15 Instead you ought to say, If the Lord wills, we will both live and do this or that.
James 4:16 But now you boast in your arrogance; all such boasting is evil.
James 4:17 Therefore to him who knows to do good and does not do it, to him it is sin.

James Chapter 5
James 5:1 Come now, you rich, weep, howling over your miseries, which are coming upon you!
James 5:2 Your riches have rotted and your garments have become moth-eaten;
James 5:3 Your gold and your silver have rusted, and their rust will be a testimony against you and will eat your flesh like fire. You have stored up treasure in the last days.
James 5:4 Behold, the wages of the workmen who mowed your fields, which have been withheld by you, cry out; and the cries of those who reaped have entered into the ears of the Lord of hosts.
James 5:5 You have lived luxuriously on the earth and have given yourselves to pleasure; you have nourished your hearts in a day of slaughter.
James 5:6 You condemned, you murdered the righteous; he does not resist you.
James 5:7 Therefore be long-suffering, brothers, until the coming of the Lord. Behold, the farmer eagerly awaits the precious fruit of the earth, exercising long-suffering over it until it receives the early and late rain.
James 5:8 You also be long-suffering; establish your hearts because the coming of the Lord has drawn near.
James 5:9 Do not complain, brothers, against one another lest you be judged. Behold, the Judge stands before the doors.
James 5:10 As an example, brothers, of suffering evil and of long-suffering, take the prophets, who spoke in the name of the Lord.
James 5:11 Behold, we call those who endured blessed. You have heard of the endurance of Job, and you have seen his end from the Lord, that the Lord is very tenderhearted and compassionate.
James 5:12 But above all things, my brothers, do not swear, neither by heaven nor by earth nor with any other oath; but let your yes be yes, and your no, no, lest you fall under judgment.
James 5:13 Does anyone among you suffer evil? Let him pray. Is anyone cheerful? Let him sing praise.
James 5:14 Is anyone among you ill? Let them call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord.
James 5:15 And the prayer of faith will save the one who is sick, and the Lord will raise him up; and if he has committed sins, it will be forgiven him.
James 5:16 Therefore confess your sins to one another and pray for one another that you may be healed. The petition of a righteous man avails much in its working.
James 5:17 Elijah was a man of like feeling with us, and he earnestly prayed that it would not rain; and it did not rain on the earth for three years and six months.
James 5:18 And he prayed again, and heaven gave rain, and the earth sprouted forth with its fruit.
James 5:19 My brothers, if any one among you is led astray from the truth and someone turns him back,
James 5:20 Let him know that he who turns a sinner back from the error of his way will save that one’s soul from death and will cover a multitude of sins.


THE FIRST EPISTLE OF PETER
Subject:
The Christian Life under the Government of God
1 Peter Chapter 1
1 Pet. 1:1 Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the sojourners of the dispersion of Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia,
1 Pet. 1:2 Chosen according to the foreknowledge of God the Father in the sanctification of the Spirit unto the obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ: Grace to you and peace be multiplied.
1 Pet. 1:3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to His great mercy has regenerated us unto a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead,
1 Pet. 1:4 Unto an inheritance, incorruptible and undefiled and unfading, kept in the heavens for you,
1 Pet. 1:5 Who are being guarded by the power of God through faith unto a salvation ready to be revealed at the last time;
1 Pet. 1:6 In which time you exult, though for a little while at present, if it must be, you have been made sorrowful by various trials,
1 Pet. 1:7 So that the proving of your faith, much more precious than of gold which perishes though it is proved by fire, may be found unto praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ;
1 Pet. 1:8 Whom having not seen, you love; into whom though not seeing Him at present, yet believing, you exult with joy that is unspeakable and full of glory,
1 Pet. 1:9 Receiving the end of your faith, the salvation of your souls.
1 Pet. 1:10 Concerning this salvation the prophets, who prophesied concerning the grace that was to come unto you, sought and searched diligently,
1 Pet. 1:11 Searching into what time or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ in them was making clear, testifying beforehand of the sufferings of Christ and the glories after these.
1 Pet. 1:12 To them it was revealed that not to themselves but to you they ministered these things, which have now been announced to you through those who preached the gospel to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven, which things angels long to look into.
1 Pet. 1:13 Therefore girding up the loins of your mind and being sober, set your hope perfectly on the grace being brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ.
1 Pet. 1:14 As children of obedience, do not be fashioned according to the former lusts in your ignorance;
1 Pet. 1:15 But according to the Holy One who called you, you yourselves also be holy in all your manner of life;
1 Pet. 1:16 Because it is written, “You shall be holy because I am holy.”
1 Pet. 1:17 And if you call as Father the One who without respect of persons judges according to each one’s work, pass the time of your sojourning in fear,
1 Pet. 1:18 Knowing that it was not with corruptible things, with silver or gold, that you were redeemed from your vain manner of life handed down from your fathers,
1 Pet. 1:19 But with precious blood, as of a Lamb without blemish and without spot, the blood of Christ;
1 Pet. 1:20 Who was foreknown before the foundation of the world but has been manifested in the last of times for your sake,
1 Pet. 1:21 Who through Him believe into God, who raised Him from the dead and gave Him glory, so that your faith and hope are in God.
1 Pet. 1:22 Since you have purified your souls by your obedience to the truth unto unfeigned brotherly love, love one another from a pure heart fervently,
1 Pet. 1:23 Having been regenerated not of corruptible seed but of incorruptible, through the living and abiding word of God.
1 Pet. 1:24 For “all flesh is like grass, and all its glory like the flower of grass. The grass has withered, and the flower has fallen off,
1 Pet. 1:25 But the word of the Lord abides forever.” And this is the word which has been announced to you as the gospel.

1 Peter Chapter 2
1 Pet. 2:1 Therefore putting away all malice and all guile and hypocrisies and envyings and all evil speakings,
1 Pet. 2:2 As newborn babes, long for the guileless milk of the word in order that by it you may grow unto salvation,
1 Pet. 2:3 If you have tasted that the Lord is good.
1 Pet. 2:4 Coming to Him, a living stone, rejected by men but with God chosen and precious,
1 Pet. 2:5 You yourselves also, as living stones, are being built up as a spiritual house into a holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ.
1 Pet. 2:6 For it is contained in Scripture: “Behold, I lay in Zion a cornerstone, chosen and precious; and he who believes on Him shall by no means be put to shame.”
1 Pet. 2:7 To you therefore who believe is the preciousness; but to the unbelieving, “The stone which the builders rejected, this has become the head of the corner,”
1 Pet. 2:8 And, “A stone of stumbling and a rock of offense”; who stumble at the word, being disobedient, to which also they were appointed.
1 Pet. 2:9 But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people acquired for a possession, so that you may tell out the virtues of Him who has called you out of darkness into His marvelous light;
1 Pet. 2:10 Who once were not a people but now are the people of God; who had not previously been shown mercy but have now been shown mercy.
1 Pet. 2:11 Beloved, I entreat you as strangers and sojourners to abstain from fleshly lusts, which war against the soul,
1 Pet. 2:12 Having your manner of life excellent among the Gentiles, so that in the matter concerning which they speak against you as evildoers they may, by your good works, as they see them with their own eyes, glorify God in the day of His visitation.
1 Pet. 2:13 Be subject to every human institution for the Lord’s sake, whether to a king as being supreme,
1 Pet. 2:14 Or to governors as being sent by him for vengeance on evildoers and praise of those who do good.
1 Pet. 2:15 For so is the will of God, that by doing good you would muzzle the ignorance of foolish men;
1 Pet. 2:16 As free, and yet not having freedom as a covering for evil, but as slaves of God.
1 Pet. 2:17 Honor all men. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the king.
1 Pet. 2:18 Household servants, be subject in all fear to your masters, not only to the good and forbearing but also to the crooked.
1 Pet. 2:19 For this is grace, if anyone, because of a consciousness of God, bears sorrows by suffering unjustly.
1 Pet. 2:20 For what glory is it if, while sinning and being buffeted, you endure? But if, while doing good and suffering, you endure, this is grace with God.
1 Pet. 2:21 For to this you were called, because Christ also suffered on your behalf, leaving you a model so that you may follow in His steps;
1 Pet. 2:22 Who committed no sin, nor was guile found in His mouth;
1 Pet. 2:23 Who being reviled did not revile in return; suffering, He did not threaten but kept committing all to Him who judges righteously;
1 Pet. 2:24 Who Himself bore up our sins in His body on the tree, in order that we, having died to sins, might live to righteousness; by whose bruise you were healed.
1 Pet. 2:25 For you were like sheep being led astray, but you have now returned to the Shepherd and Overseer of your souls.

1 Peter Chapter 3
1 Pet. 3:1 In like manner, wives, be subject to your own husbands, that even if any disobey the word, they will be gained without the word through the manner of life of their wives,
1 Pet. 3:2 Seeing with their own eyes your pure manner of life in fear.
1 Pet. 3:3 Let your adorning not be the outward plaiting of hair and putting on of gold or clothing with garments,
1 Pet. 3:4 But the hidden man of the heart in the incorruptible adornment of a meek and quiet spirit, which is very costly in the sight of God.
1 Pet. 3:5 For in this manner formerly the holy women also, who hoped in God, adorned themselves, being subject to their own husbands,
1 Pet. 3:6 As Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him lord; whose children you have become, if you do good and do not fear any terror.
1 Pet. 3:7 Husbands, in like manner dwell together with them according to knowledge, as with the weaker, female vessel, assigning honor to them as also to fellow heirs of the grace of life, that your prayers may not be hindered.
1 Pet. 3:8 And finally be all of the same mind, sympathetic, loving the brothers, tenderhearted, humble-minded;
1 Pet. 3:9 Not rendering evil for evil or reviling for reviling, but on the contrary blessing one another, because you were called to this, that you might inherit blessing.
1 Pet. 3:10 For “he who desires to love life and see good days, let him cause his tongue to cease from evil and his lips to speak no guile.
1 Pet. 3:11 And let him turn away from evil and do good; let him seek peace and pursue it;
1 Pet. 3:12 For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and His ears incline to their petition; but the face of the Lord is against those who do evil.”
1 Pet. 3:13 And who will harm you if you become zealous for what is good?
1 Pet. 3:14 But even if you suffer because of righteousness, you are blessed. And do not be afraid with fear from them, nor be troubled,
1 Pet. 3:15 But sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts, being always ready for a defense to everyone who asks of you an account concerning the hope which is in you,
1 Pet. 3:16 Yet with meekness and fear, having a good conscience, so that in the matter in which you are spoken against, those who revile your good manner of life in Christ may be put to shame.
1 Pet. 3:17 For it is better, if the will of God should will it, to suffer for doing good than for doing evil.
1 Pet. 3:18 For Christ also has suffered once for sins, the Righteous on behalf of the unrighteous, that He might bring you to God, on the one hand being put to death in the flesh, but on the other, made alive in the Spirit;
1 Pet. 3:19 In which also He went and proclaimed to the spirits in prison,
1 Pet. 3:20 Who had formerly disobeyed when the long-suffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was being prepared; entering into which, a few, that is, eight souls, were brought safely through by water.
1 Pet. 3:21 Which water, as the antitype, also now saves you, that is, baptism, not a putting away of the filth of the flesh but the appeal of a good conscience unto God, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,
1 Pet. 3:22 Who is at the right hand of God, having gone into heaven, angels and authorities and powers being subjected to Him.

1 Peter Chapter 4
1 Pet. 4:1 Since Christ therefore has suffered in the flesh, you also arm yourselves with the same mind (because he who has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin),
1 Pet. 4:2 No longer to live the rest of the time in the flesh in the lusts of men, but in the will of God.
1 Pet. 4:3 For the time which has passed is sufficient for you to have carried out the desire of the Gentiles, having gone on in licentiousness, lusts, debaucheries, carousings, drinking bouts, and lawless idolatries.
1 Pet. 4:4 In this they think it strange that you are not running together with them into the same flood of dissoluteness, slandering you;
1 Pet. 4:5 Who will render an account to Him who is ready to judge the living and the dead.
1 Pet. 4:6 For unto this end the gospel was announced also to those who are now dead, that they might be judged in the flesh according to men but live in the spirit according to God.
1 Pet. 4:7 But the end of all things has drawn near. Therefore be sober-minded and be sober unto prayers.
1 Pet. 4:8 Above all, have fervent love among yourselves, because love covers a multitude of sins.
1 Pet. 4:9 Be hospitable to one another without murmuring,
1 Pet. 4:10 Each one, as he has received a gift, ministering it among yourselves as good stewards of the varied grace of God.
1 Pet. 4:11 If anyone speaks, as speaking oracles of God; if anyone ministers, as ministering out of the strength which God supplies; that in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom is the glory and the might forever and ever. Amen.
1 Pet. 4:12 Beloved, do not think that the fiery ordeal among you, coming to you for a trial, is strange, as if it were a strange thing happening to you;
1 Pet. 4:13 But inasmuch as you share in the sufferings of Christ, rejoice, so that also at the revelation of His glory you may rejoice exultingly.
1 Pet. 4:14 If you are reproached in the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the Spirit of glory and of God rests upon you.
1 Pet. 4:15 For let none of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or an evildoer or as a meddler into others’ affairs;
1 Pet. 4:16 But if as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God in this name.
1 Pet. 4:17 For it is time for the judgment to begin from the house of God; and if first from us, what will be the end of those who disobey the gospel of God?
1 Pet. 4:18 And if the righteous man is saved only with difficulty, where will the ungodly and the sinner appear?
1 Pet. 4:19 So then let those also who suffer according to the will of God commit their souls in well-doing to a faithful Creator.

1 Peter Chapter 5
1 Pet. 5:1 Therefore the elders among you I exhort, who am a fellow elder and witness of the sufferings of Christ, who am also a partaker of the glory to be revealed:
1 Pet. 5:2 Shepherd the flock of God among you, overseeing not under compulsion but willingly, according to God; not by seeking gain through base means but eagerly;
1 Pet. 5:3 Nor as lording it over your allotments but by becoming patterns of the flock.
1 Pet. 5:4 And when the Chief Shepherd is manifested, you will receive the unfading crown of glory.
1 Pet. 5:5 In like manner, younger men, be subject to elders; and all of you gird yourselves with humility toward one another, because God resists the proud but gives grace to the humble.
1 Pet. 5:6 Therefore be humbled under the mighty hand of God that He may exalt you in due time,
1 Pet. 5:7 Casting all your anxiety on Him because it matters to Him concerning you.
1 Pet. 5:8 Be sober; watch. Your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walks about, seeking someone to devour.
1 Pet. 5:9 Him withstand, being firm in your faith, knowing that the same sufferings are being accomplished among your brotherhood in the world.
1 Pet. 5:10 But the God of all grace, He who has called you into His eternal glory in Christ Jesus, after you have suffered a little while, will Himself perfect, establish, strengthen, and ground you.
1 Pet. 5:11 To Him be the glory and the might forever and ever. Amen.
1 Pet. 5:12 Through Silvanus, the faithful brother, as I account him, I have written to you briefly, exhorting and testifying fully that this is the true grace of God; enter into this grace and stand in it.
1 Pet. 5:13 The co-chosen in Babylon and Mark my son greet you.
1 Pet. 5:14 Greet one another with a kiss of love. Peace to you all who are in Christ.

THE SECOND EPISTLE OF PETER
Subject:
The Divine Provision and the Divine Government
2 Peter Chapter 1
2 Pet. 1:1 Simon Peter, a slave and apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who have been allotted faith equally precious as ours in the righteousness of our God and Savior, Jesus Christ:
2 Pet. 1:2 Grace to you and peace be multiplied in the full knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord;
2 Pet. 1:3 Seeing that His divine power has granted to us all things which relate to life and godliness, through the full knowledge of Him who has called us by His own glory and virtue,
2 Pet. 1:4 Through which He has granted to us precious and exceedingly great promises that through these you might become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption which is in the world by lust.
2 Pet. 1:5 And for this very reason also, adding all diligence, supply bountifully in your faith virtue; and in virtue, knowledge;
2 Pet. 1:6 And in knowledge, self-control; and in self-control, endurance; and in endurance, godliness;
2 Pet. 1:7 And in godliness, brotherly love; and in brotherly love, love.
2 Pet. 1:8 For these things, existing in you and abounding, constitute you neither idle nor unfruitful unto the full knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.
2 Pet. 1:9 For he in whom these things are not present is blind, being shortsighted, having forgotten the cleansing of his past sins.
2 Pet. 1:10 Therefore, brothers, be the more diligent to make your calling and selection firm, for doing these things you shall by no means ever stumble.
2 Pet. 1:11 For in this way the entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ will be richly and bountifully supplied to you.
2 Pet. 1:12 Therefore I will be ready always to remind you concerning these things, even though you know them and have been established in the present truth.
2 Pet. 1:13 And I consider it right, as long as I am in this tabernacle, to stir you up by a reminder,
2 Pet. 1:14 Knowing that the putting off of my tabernacle is imminent, even as also our Lord Jesus Christ has made clear to me.
2 Pet. 1:15 Moreover I will also be diligent that you may be able, after my exodus, to bring these things to mind at all times.
2 Pet. 1:16 For we did not follow cleverly devised myths when we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but we became eyewitnesses of that One’s majesty.
2 Pet. 1:17 For He received from God the Father honor and glory, a voice such as this being borne to Him by the magnificent glory: This is My Son, My Beloved, in whom I delight.
2 Pet. 1:18 And this voice we heard being borne out of heaven while we were with Him in the holy mountain.
2 Pet. 1:19 And we have the prophetic word made more firm, to which you do well to give heed as to a lamp shining in a dark place, until the day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts;
2 Pet. 1:20 Knowing this first, that no prophecy of Scripture is of one’s own interpretation;
2 Pet. 1:21 For no prophecy was ever borne by the will of man, but men spoke from God while being borne by the Holy Spirit.

2 Peter Chapter 2
2 Pet. 2:1 But there arose also false prophets among the people, as also among you there will be false teachers, who will secretly bring in destructive heresies, even denying the Master who bought them, bringing upon themselves swift destruction.
2 Pet. 2:2 And many will follow their licentiousness, because of whom the way of the truth will be reviled.
2 Pet. 2:3 And in covetousness, with fabricated words, they will make merchandise of you, for whom the judgment of old is not idle, and their destruction does not slumber.
2 Pet. 2:4 For if God did not spare the angels who sinned but delivered them to gloomy pits, having cast them down to Tartarus, they being kept for judgment;
2 Pet. 2:5 And did not spare the ancient world but guarded Noah, a herald of righteousness, with seven others, when He brought a flood upon the world of the ungodly;
2 Pet. 2:6 And having reduced to ashes the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah, condemned them to ruin, having set them as an example to those who intend to live an ungodly life,
2 Pet. 2:7 And rescued righteous Lot, who had been oppressed by the licentious manner of life of the lawless
2 Pet. 2:8 (For that righteous man, who settled down among them, in seeing and hearing tormented his righteous soul day after day with their lawless works);
2 Pet. 2:9 The Lord knows how to deliver the godly out of trial and how to keep the unrighteous under punishment for the day of judgment,
2 Pet. 2:10 And especially those who go after the flesh in the lust for defilement and despise lordship. Daring, self-willed, they do not tremble while reviling dignities;
2 Pet. 2:11 Whereas angels, though they are greater in strength and power, do not bring a reviling judgment against them before the Lord.
2 Pet. 2:12 But these, like animals without reason, born natural for capture and destruction, reviling in things of which they are ignorant, will also in their corrupting of others be destroyed;
2 Pet. 2:13 Suffering unrighteousness as the wages of unrighteousness; considering luxury in the day to be pleasure; spots and blemishes, reveling in their deceits while feasting together with you;
2 Pet. 2:14 Having eyes full of adultery and not ceasing from sin; enticing unstable souls, having a heart exercised for covetousness, children of curse.
2 Pet. 2:15 Forsaking the straight way, they have gone astray, following the way of Balaam, the son of Beor, who loved the wages of unrighteousness
2 Pet. 2:16 But had reproof for his own transgression: a dumb beast of burden, uttering with a man’s voice, restrained the madness of the prophet.
2 Pet. 2:17 These are springs without water and mists driven by a storm, for whom the gloom of darkness is kept.
2 Pet. 2:18 For uttering great swelling words of vanity, they entice by lusts of the flesh, with licentiousness, those who are barely escaping from them who live in error;
2 Pet. 2:19 Promising freedom to them, while they themselves are slaves of corruption; for by whom anyone has been defeated, by this one he has been enslaved.
2 Pet. 2:20 For if, having escaped the defilements of the world by the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ but having again been entangled in these, they are defeated, the last state has become worse for them than the first.
2 Pet. 2:21 For it would be better for them not to have known the way of righteousness than, knowing it, to turn back from the holy commandment delivered to them.
2 Pet. 2:22 It has happened to them according to the true proverb: The dog has turned to its own vomit, and the washed sow to wallowing in the mud.

2 Peter Chapter 3
2 Pet. 3:1 This second letter, beloved, I now write to you; in them both I stir up your sincere mind with a reminder,
2 Pet. 3:2 So that you would remember the words spoken before by the holy prophets and the commandment of the Lord and Savior preached by your apostles;
2 Pet. 3:3 Knowing this first, that in the last of days mockers will come with mocking, going on according to their own lusts
2 Pet. 3:4 And saying, Where is the promise of His coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue in this way from the beginning of creation.
2 Pet. 3:5 For this escapes them by their own choosing, that by the word of God the heavens were of old and the earth was compacted out of water and through water,
2 Pet. 3:6 Through which the world then, being flooded with water, perished.
2 Pet. 3:7 But the heavens and the earth now, by the same word, have been stored up for fire, being kept unto the day of judgment and destruction of ungodly men.
2 Pet. 3:8 But do not let this one thing escape you, beloved, that with the Lord one day is like a thousand years and a thousand years like one day.
2 Pet. 3:9 The Lord does not delay regarding the promise, as some count delay, but is long-suffering toward you, not intending that any perish but that all advance to repentance.
2 Pet. 3:10 But the day of the Lord will come as a thief, in which the heavens will pass away with a roar, and the elements, burning with intense heat, will be dissolved, and the earth and the works in it will be burned up.
2 Pet. 3:11 Since all these things are to be thus dissolved, what kind of persons ought you to be in holy manner of life and godliness,
2 Pet. 3:12 Expecting and hastening the coming of the day of God, on account of which the heavens, being on fire, will be dissolved, and the elements, burning with intense heat, are to be melted away?
2 Pet. 3:13 But according to His promise we are expecting new heavens and a new earth, in which righteousness dwells.
2 Pet. 3:14 Therefore, beloved, since you expect these things, be diligent to be found by Him in peace without spot and without blemish;
2 Pet. 3:15 And count the long-suffering of our Lord to be salvation, even as also our beloved brother Paul, according to the wisdom given to him, wrote to you,
2 Pet. 3:16 As also in all his letters, speaking in them concerning these things, in which some things are hard to understand, which the unlearned and unstable twist, as also the rest of the Scriptures, to their own destruction.
2 Pet. 3:17 You therefore, beloved, since you know these things beforehand, be on your guard lest being carried away by the error of the lawless, you fall from your own steadfastness.
2 Pet. 3:18 But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To Him be the glory both now and unto the day of eternity. Amen.


THE FIRST EPISTLE OF JOHN
Subject:
The Fellowship of the Divine Life 
1 John Chapter 1
1 John 1:1 That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we beheld and our hands handled, concerning the Word of life
1 John 1:2 (And the life was manifested, and we have seen and testify and report to you the eternal life, which was with the Father and was manifested to us);
1 John 1:3 That which we have seen and heard we report also to you that you also may have fellowship with us, and indeed our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son Jesus Christ.
1 John 1:4 And these things we write that our joy may be made full.
1 John 1:5 And this is the message which we have heard from Him and announce to you, that God is light and in Him is no darkness at all.
1 John 1:6 If we say that we have fellowship with Him and yet walk in the darkness, we lie and are not practicing the truth;
1 John 1:7 But if we walk in the light as He is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus His Son cleanses us from every sin.
1 John 1:8 If we say that we do not have sin, we are deceiving ourselves, and the truth is not in us.
1 John 1:9 If we confess our sins, He is faithful and righteous to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness.
1 John 1:10 If we say that we have not sinned, we make Him a liar, and His word is not in us.

1 John Chapter 2
1 John 2:1 My little children, these things I write to you that you may not sin. And if anyone sins, we have an Advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the Righteous;
1 John 2:2 And He Himself is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only but also for those of the whole world.
1 John 2:3 And in this we know that we know Him, if we keep His commandments.
1 John 2:4 He who says, I know Him, and does not keep His commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in this one;
1 John 2:5 But whoever keeps His word, truly in this one the love of God has been perfected. In this we know that we are in Him.
1 John 2:6 He who says he abides in Him ought himself also to walk even as He walked.
1 John 2:7 Beloved, I am not writing a new commandment to you but an old commandment, which you have had from the beginning; the old commandment is the word which you heard.
1 John 2:8 Yet again a new commandment I am writing to you, which is true in Him and in you because the darkness is passing away and the true light is already shining.
1 John 2:9 He who says he is in the light and yet hates his brother is in the darkness until now.
1 John 2:10 He who loves his brother abides in the light, and there is no cause of stumbling in him;
1 John 2:11 But he who hates his brother is in the darkness and walks in the darkness and does not know where he is going, because the darkness has blinded his eyes.
1 John 2:12 I write to you, little children, because your sins have been forgiven you because of His name.
1 John 2:13 I write to you, fathers, because you know Him who is from the beginning. I write to you, young men, because you have overcome the evil one. I write to you, young children, because you know the Father.
1 John 2:14 I have written to you, fathers, because you know Him who is from the beginning. I have written to you, young men, because you are strong and the word of God abides in you and you have overcome the evil one.
1 John 2:15 Do not love the world nor the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, love for the Father is not in him;
1 John 2:16 Because all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh and the lust of the eyes and the vainglory of life, is not of the Father but is of the world.
1 John 2:17 And the world is passing away, and its lust, but he who does the will of God abides forever.
1 John 2:18 Young children, it is the last hour; and even as you heard that antichrist is coming, even now many antichrists have come; whereby we know that it is the last hour.
1 John 2:19 They went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they had been of us, they would have remained with us; but they went out that they might be manifested that they all are not of us.
1 John 2:20 And you have an anointing from the Holy One, and all of you know.
1 John 2:21 I have not written to you because you do not know the truth, but because you know it and because no lie is of the truth.
1 John 2:22 Who is the liar if not he who denies that Jesus is the Christ? This is the antichrist, the one who denies the Father and the Son.
1 John 2:23 Everyone who denies the Son does not have the Father either; he who confesses the Son has the Father also.
1 John 2:24 As for you, that which you heard from the beginning, let it abide in you. If that which you heard from the beginning abides in you, you also will abide in the Son and in the Father.
1 John 2:25 And this is the promise which He Himself promised us, the eternal life.
1 John 2:26 These things I have written to you concerning those who lead you astray.
1 John 2:27 And as for you, the anointing which you have received from Him abides in you, and you have no need that anyone teach you; but as His anointing teaches you concerning all things and is true and is not a lie, and even as it has taught you, abide in Him.
1 John 2:28 And now, little children, abide in Him, so that if He is manifested, we may have boldness and not be put to shame from Him at His coming.
1 John 2:29 If you know that He is righteous, you know that everyone who practices righteousness also has been begotten of Him.

1 John Chapter 3
1 John 3:1 Behold what manner of love the Father has given to us, that we should be called children of God; and we are. Because of this the world does not know us, because it did not know Him.
1 John 3:2 Beloved, now we are children of God, and it has not yet been manifested what we will be. We know that if He is manifested, we will be like Him because we will see Him even as He is.
1 John 3:3 And everyone who has this hope set on Him purifies himself, even as He is pure.
1 John 3:4 Everyone who practices sin practices lawlessness also, and sin is lawlessness.
1 John 3:5 And you know that He was manifested that He might take away sins; and sin is not in Him.
1 John 3:6 Everyone who abides in Him does not sin; everyone who sins has not seen Him or known Him.
1 John 3:7 Little children, let no one lead you astray; he who practices righteousness is righteous, even as He is righteous;
1 John 3:8 He who practices sin is of the devil, because the devil has sinned from the beginning. For this purpose the Son of God was manifested, that He might destroy the works of the devil.
1 John 3:9 Everyone who has been begotten of God does not practice sin, because His seed abides in him; and he cannot sin, because he has been begotten of God.
1 John 3:10 In this the children of God and the children of the devil are manifest. Everyone who does not practice righteousness is not of God, neither he who does not love his brother.
1 John 3:11 For this is the message which you heard from the beginning, that we should love one another,
1 John 3:12 Not as Cain was of the evil one and slew his brother. And for what reason did he slay him? Because his works were evil, and his brother’s, righteous.
1 John 3:13 Do not marvel, brothers, if the world hates you.
1 John 3:14 We know that we have passed out of death into life because we love the brothers. He who does not love abides in death.
1 John 3:15 Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him.
1 John 3:16 In this we know love, that He laid down His life on our behalf, and we ought to lay down our lives on behalf of the brothers.
1 John 3:17 But whoever has the livelihood of the world and sees that his brother has need and shuts up his affections from him, how does the love of God abide in him?
1 John 3:18 Little children, let us not love in word nor in tongue but in deed and truthfulness.
1 John 3:19 And in this we will know that we are of the truth, and we will persuade our heart before Him,
1 John 3:20 Because if our heart blames us, it is because God is greater than our heart and knows all things.
1 John 3:21 Beloved, if our heart does not blame us, we have boldness toward God;
1 John 3:22 And whatever we ask we receive from Him because we keep His commandments and do the things that are pleasing in His sight.
1 John 3:23 And this is His commandment, that we believe in the name of His Son Jesus Christ and love one another, even as He gave a commandment to us.
1 John 3:24 And he who keeps His commandments abides in Him, and He in him. And in this we know that He abides in us, by the Spirit whom He gave to us.

1 John Chapter 4
1 John 4:1 Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but prove the spirits whether they are of God, because many false prophets have gone out into the world.
1 John 4:2 In this you know the Spirit of God: Every spirit which confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is of God,
1 John 4:3 And every spirit which does not confess Jesus is not of God; and this is the spirit of the antichrist, of which you have heard that it is coming and now is already in the world.
1 John 4:4 You are of God, little children; and you have overcome them because greater is He who is in you than he who is in the world.
1 John 4:5 They are of the world; therefore they speak out of the world, and the world hears them.
1 John 4:6 We are of God; he who knows God hears us; he who is not of God does not hear us. From this we know the Spirit of truth and the spirit of deception.
1 John 4:7 Beloved, let us love one another, because love is of God, and everyone who loves has been begotten of God and knows God.
1 John 4:8 He who does not love has not known God, because God is love.
1 John 4:9 In this the love of God was manifested among us, that God sent His only begotten Son into the world that we might have life and live through Him.
1 John 4:10 Herein is love, not that we have loved God but that He loved us and sent His Son as a propitiation for our sins.
1 John 4:11 Beloved, if God has loved us in this way, we also ought to love one another.
1 John 4:12 No one has beheld God at any time; if we love one another, God abides in us, and His love is perfected in us.
1 John 4:13 In this we know that we abide in Him and He in us, that He has given to us of His Spirit.
1 John 4:14 And we have beheld and testify that the Father has sent the Son as the Savior of the world.
1 John 4:15 Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him and he in God.
1 John 4:16 And we know and have believed the love which God has in us. God is love, and he who abides in love abides in God and God abides in him.
1 John 4:17 In this has love been perfected with us, that we may have boldness in the day of the judgment because even as He is, so also are we in this world.
1 John 4:18 There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear because fear has punishment, and he who fears has not been perfected in love.
1 John 4:19 We love because He first loved us.
1 John 4:20 If anyone says, I love God, and hates his brother, he is a liar; for he who does not love his brother, whom he has seen, cannot love God, whom he has not seen.
1 John 4:21 And this commandment we have from Him, that he who loves God love his brother also.

1 John Chapter 5
1 John 5:1 Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been begotten of God, and everyone who loves Him who has begotten loves him also who has been begotten of Him.
1 John 5:2 In this we know that we love the children of God, when we love God and do His commandments.
1 John 5:3 For this is the love of God, that we keep His commandments; and His commandments are not burdensome.
1 John 5:4 For everything that has been begotten of God overcomes the world; and this is the victory which has overcome the world — our faith.
1 John 5:5 And who is he who overcomes the world except him who believes that Jesus is the Son of God?
1 John 5:6 This is He who came through water and blood, Jesus Christ; not in the water only, but in the water and in the blood; and the Spirit is He who testifies, because the Spirit is the reality.
1 John 5:7 For there are three who testify,
1 John 5:8 The Spirit and the water and the blood, and the three are unto the one thing.
1 John 5:9 If we receive the testimony of men, the testimony of God is greater, because this is the testimony of God that He has testified concerning His Son.
1 John 5:10 He who believes into the Son of God has the testimony in himself; he who does not believe God has made Him a liar because he has not believed in the testimony which God has testified concerning His Son.
1 John 5:11 And this is the testimony, that God gave to us eternal life and this life is in His Son.
1 John 5:12 He who has the Son has the life; he who does not have the Son of God does not have the life.
1 John 5:13 I have written these things to you that you may know that you have eternal life, to you who believe into the name of the Son of God.
1 John 5:14 And this is the boldness which we have toward Him, that if we ask anything according to His will, He hears us.
1 John 5:15 And if we know that He hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests which we have asked from Him.
1 John 5:16 If anyone sees his brother sinning a sin not unto death, he shall ask and he will give life to him, to those sinning not unto death. There is a sin unto death; I do not say that he should make request concerning that.
1 John 5:17 All unrighteousness is sin, and there is sin not unto death.
1 John 5:18 We know that everyone who is begotten of God does not sin, but he who has been begotten of God keeps himself, and the evil one does not touch him.
1 John 5:19 We know that we are of God, and the whole world lies in the evil one.
1 John 5:20 And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us an understanding that we might know Him who is true; and we are in Him who is true, in His Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God and eternal life.
1 John 5:21 Little children, guard yourselves from idols.

THE SECOND EPISTLE OF JOHN
Subject:
Prohibition against Participation in Heresy
2 John 1 The elder to the chosen lady and to her children, whom I love in truthfulness, and not only I but also all those who know the truth,
2 John 2 For the sake of the truth which abides in us and will be with us forever:
2 John 3 Grace, mercy, peace will be with us from God the Father and from Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love.
2 John 4 I rejoiced greatly that I have found some of your children walking in truth, even as we received commandment from the Father.
2 John 5 And now I ask you, lady, not as writing a new commandment to you but that which we have had from the beginning, that we love one another.
2 John 6 And this is love, that we walk according to His commandments. This is the commandment, even as you heard from the beginning, that you walk in love.
2 John 7 For many deceivers went out into the world, those who do not confess Jesus Christ coming in the flesh. This is the deceiver and the antichrist.
2 John 8 Look to yourselves that you do not lose the things which we wrought, but that you may receive a full reward.
2 John 9 Everyone who goes beyond and does not abide in the teaching of Christ does not have God; he who abides in the teaching, he has both the Father and the Son.
2 John 10 If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not receive him into your house, and do not say to him, Rejoice!
2 John 11 For he who says to him, Rejoice, shares in his evil works.
2 John 12 Though I have many things to write to you, I do not want to do so with paper and ink, but I am hoping to be with you and to speak face to face that our joy may be made full.
2 John 13 The children of your chosen sister greet you.

THE THIRD EPISTLE OF JOHN
Subject:
Encouragement to the Fellow Workers in the Truth
3 John 1 The elder to Gaius the beloved, whom I love in truthfulness.
3 John 2 Beloved, concerning all things I wish that you may prosper and be in health, even as your soul prospers.
3 John 3 For I rejoiced greatly at the brothers’ coming and testifying to your steadfastness in the truth, even as you walk in truth.
3 John 4 I have no greater joy than these things, that I hear that my children are walking in the truth.
3 John 5 Beloved, you do faithfully in whatever you have wrought for the brothers, and this for strangers,
3 John 6 Who testified to your love before the church; whom you will do well to send forward in a manner worthy of God;
3 John 7 For on behalf of the Name they went out, taking nothing from the Gentiles.
3 John 8 We therefore ought to support such ones that we may become fellow workers in the truth.
3 John 9 I wrote something to the church; but Diotrephes, who loves to be first among them, does not receive us.
3 John 10 For this reason, if I come, I will bring to remembrance his works which he does, babbling against us with evil words; and not being satisfied with these, neither does he himself receive the brothers, and those intending to do so he forbids and casts out of the church.
3 John 11 Beloved, do not imitate the evil, but the good. He who does good is of God; he who does evil has not seen God.
3 John 12 To Demetrius testimony has been borne by all and by the truth itself; and we also testify, and you know that our testimony is true.
3 John 13 I had many things to write to you, but I do not want to write to you with ink and pen;
3 John 14 But I hope to see you shortly, and we will speak face to face. Peace to you. The friends greet you. Greet the friends by name.

THE EPISTLE OF JUDE
Subject:
Contending for the Faith
Jude 1 Jude, a slave of Jesus Christ and a brother of James, to those who are called, beloved in God the Father, and kept by Jesus Christ:
Jude 2 Mercy to you and peace and love be multiplied.
Jude 3 Beloved, while using all diligence to write to you concerning our common salvation, I found it necessary to write to you and exhort you to earnestly contend for the faith once for all delivered to the saints.
Jude 4 For certain men have crept in unnoticed, who of old have been written of beforehand for this judgment, ungodly men, perverting the grace of our God into licentiousness and denying our only Master and Lord, Jesus Christ.
Jude 5 But I intend to remind you, though you know all things once for all, that the Lord, having saved a people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed those who did not believe;
Jude 6 And angels who did not keep their own principality but abandoned their own dwelling place, He has kept in eternal bonds under gloom for the judgment of the great day;
Jude 7 How Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities around them, who in like manner with these gave themselves over to fornication and went after different flesh, are set forth as an example, undergoing the penalty of eternal fire.
Jude 8 Nevertheless in like manner these dreamers also defile the flesh and despise lordship and revile dignities.
Jude 9 But Michael the archangel, when he contended with the devil and disputed concerning the body of Moses, did not dare to bring a reviling judgment against him but said, The Lord rebuke you.
Jude 10 But these revile the things that they do not know; and the things that they understand naturally, like animals without reason, in these they are being corrupted.
Jude 11 Woe to them! For they have gone in the way of Cain and have rushed out in the error of Balaam for reward and have perished in the rebellion of Korah.
Jude 12 These are the hidden reefs in your love feasts, feasting together with you without fear, shepherding themselves; waterless clouds being carried off by winds; autumn trees without fruit, having died twice, rooted up;
Jude 13 Wild waves of the sea, foaming out their own shames; wandering stars, for whom the gloom of darkness is kept for eternity.
Jude 14 And Enoch, the seventh from Adam, prophesied also of these, saying, Behold, the Lord came with myriads of His saints
Jude 15 To execute judgment against all and to convict all the ungodly concerning all their ungodly works which they have done in ungodliness, and concerning all the hard things which ungodly sinners have spoken against Him.
Jude 16 These are murmurers, complainers, going on according to their own lusts; and their mouth speaks great swelling things, flattering persons for the sake of advantage.
Jude 17 But you, beloved, remember the words spoken before by the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ,
Jude 18 That they said to you, In the last time there will be mockers, going on according to their own lusts for ungodliness.
Jude 19 These are those who make divisions, soulish, having no spirit.
Jude 20 But you, beloved, building up yourselves upon your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Spirit,
Jude 21 Keep yourselves in the love of God, awaiting the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life.
Jude 22 And on some have mercy, on those who are wavering;
Jude 23 Save them by snatching them out of the fire. On others have mercy in fear, hating even the inner garment spotted from the flesh.
Jude 24 But to Him who is able to guard you from stumbling and to set you before His glory without blemish in exultation,
Jude 25 To the only God our Savior through Jesus Christ our Lord be glory, majesty, might, and authority before all time and now and unto all eternity. Amen.


REVELATION
Subject:
Christ as the Center of God’s Administration according to God’s Eternal Economy 
Revelation Chapter 1
Rev. 1:1 The revelation of Jesus Christ which God gave to Him to show to His slaves the things that must quickly take place; and He made it known by signs, sending it by His angel to His slave John,
Rev. 1:2 Who testified the word of God and the testimony of Jesus Christ, even all that he saw.
Rev. 1:3 Blessed is he who reads and those who hear the words of the prophecy and keep the things written in it, for the time is near.
Rev. 1:4 John to the seven churches which are in Asia: Grace to you and peace from Him who is and who was and who is coming, and from the seven Spirits who are before His throne,
Rev. 1:5 And from Jesus Christ, the faithful Witness, the Firstborn of the dead, and the Ruler of the kings of the earth. To Him who loves us and has released us from our sins by His blood
Rev. 1:6 And made us a kingdom, priests to His God and Father, to Him be the glory and the might forever and ever. Amen.
Rev. 1:7 Behold, He comes with the clouds, and every eye will see Him, even those who pierced Him; and all the tribes of the land will mourn over Him. Yes. Amen.
Rev. 1:8 I am the Alpha and the Omega, says the Lord God, He who is and who was and who is coming, the Almighty.
Rev. 1:9 I John, your brother and fellow partaker in the tribulation and kingdom and endurance in Jesus, was on the island called Patmos because of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus.
Rev. 1:10 I was in spirit on the Lord’s Day and heard behind me a loud voice like a trumpet,
Rev. 1:11 Saying, What you see write in a scroll and send it to the seven churches: to Ephesus and to Smyrna and to Pergamos and to Thyatira and to Sardis and to Philadelphia and to Laodicea.
Rev. 1:12 And I turned to see the voice that spoke with me; and when I turned, I saw seven golden lampstands,
Rev. 1:13 And in the midst of the lampstands One like the Son of Man, clothed with a garment reaching to the feet, and girded about at the breasts with a golden girdle.
Rev. 1:14 And His head and hair were as white as white wool, as snow; and His eyes were like a flame of fire;
Rev. 1:15 And His feet were like shining bronze, as having been fired in a furnace; and His voice was like the sound of many waters.
Rev. 1:16 And He had in His right hand seven stars; and out of His mouth proceeded a sharp two-edged sword; and His face shone as the sun shines in its power.
Rev. 1:17 And when I saw Him, I fell at His feet as dead; and He placed His right hand on me, saying, Do not fear; I am the First and the Last
Rev. 1:18 And the living One; and I became dead, and behold, I am living forever and ever; and I have the keys of death and of Hades.
Rev. 1:19 Write therefore the things which you have seen and the things which are and the things which are about to take place after these things.
Rev. 1:20 The mystery of the seven stars which you saw upon My right hand and the seven golden lampstands: The seven stars are the messengers of the seven churches, and the seven lampstands are the seven churches.

Revelation Chapter 2
Rev. 2:1 To the messenger of the church in Ephesus write: These things says He who holds the seven stars in His right hand, He who walks in the midst of the seven golden lampstands:
Rev. 2:2 I know your works and your labor and your endurance and that you cannot bear evil men; and you have tried those who call themselves apostles and are not, and have found them to be false;
Rev. 2:3 And you have endurance and have borne all things because of My name and have not grown weary.
Rev. 2:4 But I have one thing against you, that you have left your first love.
Rev. 2:5 Remember therefore where you have fallen from and repent and do the first works; but if not, I am coming to you and will remove your lampstand out of its place, unless you repent.
Rev. 2:6 But this you have, that you hate the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate.
Rev. 2:7 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes, to him I will give to eat of the tree of life, which is in the Paradise of God.
Rev. 2:8 And to the messenger of the church in Smyrna write: These things says the First and the Last, who became dead and lived again:
Rev. 2:9 I know your tribulation and poverty (but you are rich) and the slander from those who call themselves Jews and are not, but are a synagogue of Satan.
Rev. 2:10 Do not fear the things that you are about to suffer. Behold, the devil is about to cast some of you into prison that you may be tried, and you will have tribulation for ten days. Be faithful unto death, and I will give you the crown of life.
Rev. 2:11 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. He who overcomes shall by no means be hurt of the second death.
Rev. 2:12 And to the messenger of the church in Pergamos write: These things says He who has the sharp two-edged sword:
Rev. 2:13 I know where you dwell, where Satan’s throne is; and you hold fast My name and have not denied My faith, even in the days of Antipas, My witness, My faithful one, who was killed among you, where Satan dwells.
Rev. 2:14 But I have a few things against you, that you have some there who hold the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to put a stumbling block before the sons of Israel, to eat idol sacrifices and to commit fornication.
Rev. 2:15 In the same way you also have some who hold in like manner the teaching of the Nicolaitans.
Rev. 2:16 Repent therefore; but if not, I am coming to you quickly, and I will make war with them with the sword of My mouth.
Rev. 2:17 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes, to him I will give of the hidden manna, and to him I will give a white stone, and upon the stone a new name written, which no one knows except him who receives it.
Rev. 2:18 And to the messenger of the church in Thyatira write: These things says the Son of God, He who has eyes like a flame of fire, and His feet are like shining bronze:
Rev. 2:19 I know your works and love and faith and service and your endurance and that your last works are more than the first.
Rev. 2:20 But I have something against you, that you tolerate the woman Jezebel, she who calls herself a prophetess and teaches and leads My slaves astray to commit fornication and to eat idol sacrifices.
Rev. 2:21 And I gave her time that she might repent, and she is not willing to repent of her fornication.
Rev. 2:22 Behold, I cast her into a bed, and those who commit adultery with her, into great tribulation, unless they repent of her works;
Rev. 2:23 And her children I will kill with death; and all the churches will know that I am He who searches the inward parts and the hearts; and I will give to each one of you according to your works.
Rev. 2:24 But I say to you — the rest in Thyatira, as many as do not have this teaching, who have not known the deep things of Satan, as they say — I put no other burden upon you;
Rev. 2:25 Nevertheless what you have hold fast until I come.
Rev. 2:26 And he who overcomes and he who keeps My works until the end, to him I will give authority over the nations;
Rev. 2:27 And he will shepherd them with an iron rod, as vessels of pottery are broken in pieces, as I also have received from My Father;
Rev. 2:28 And to him I will give the morning star.
Rev. 2:29 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.

Revelation Chapter 3
Rev. 3:1 And to the messenger of the church in Sardis write: These things says He who has the seven Spirits of God and the seven stars: I know your works, that you have a name that you are living, and yet you are dead.
Rev. 3:2 Become watchful and establish the things which remain, which were about to die; for I have found none of your works completed before My God.
Rev. 3:3 Remember therefore how you have received and heard, and keep it and repent. If therefore you will not watch, I will come as a thief, and you shall by no means know at what hour I will come upon you.
Rev. 3:4 But you have a few names in Sardis who have not defiled their garments, and they will walk with Me in white because they are worthy.
Rev. 3:5 He who overcomes will be clothed thus, in white garments, and I shall by no means erase his name out of the book of life, and I will confess his name before My Father and before His angels.
Rev. 3:6 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
Rev. 3:7 And to the messenger of the church in Philadelphia write: These things says the Holy One, the true One, the One who has the key of David, the One who opens and no one will shut, and shuts and no one opens:
Rev. 3:8 I know your works; behold, I have put before you an opened door which no one can shut, because you have a little power and have kept My word and have not denied My name.
Rev. 3:9 Behold, I will make those of the synagogue of Satan, those who call themselves Jews and are not, but lie — behold, I will cause them to come and fall prostrate before your feet and to know that I have loved you.
Rev. 3:10 Because you have kept the word of My endurance, I also will keep you out of the hour of trial, which is about to come on the whole inhabited earth, to try them who dwell on the earth.
Rev. 3:11 I come quickly; hold fast what you have that no one take your crown.
Rev. 3:12 He who overcomes, him I will make a pillar in the temple of My God, and he shall by no means go out anymore, and I will write upon him the name of My God and the name of the city of My God, the New Jerusalem, which descends out of heaven from My God, and My new name.
Rev. 3:13 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
Rev. 3:14 And to the messenger of the church in Laodicea write: These things says the Amen, the faithful and true Witness, the beginning of the creation of God:
Rev. 3:15 I know your works, that you are neither cold nor hot; I wish that you were cold or hot.
Rev. 3:16 So, because you are lukewarm and neither hot nor cold, I am about to spew you out of My mouth.
Rev. 3:17 Because you say, I am wealthy and have become rich and have need of nothing, and do not know that you are wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked,
Rev. 3:18 I counsel you to buy from Me gold refined by fire that you may be rich, and white garments that you may be clothed and that the shame of your nakedness may not be manifested, and eyesalve to anoint your eyes that you may see.
Rev. 3:19 As many as I love I reprove and discipline; be zealous therefore and repent.
Rev. 3:20 Behold, I stand at the door and knock; if anyone hears My voice and opens the door, then I will come in to him and dine with him and he with Me.
Rev. 3:21 He who overcomes, to him I will give to sit with Me on My throne, as I also overcame and sat with My Father on His throne.
Rev. 3:22 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.

Revelation Chapter 4
Rev. 4:1 After these things I saw, and behold, a door opened in heaven, and the first voice which I heard was like a trumpet speaking with me, saying, Come up here, and I will show you the things that must take place after these things.
Rev. 4:2 Immediately I was in spirit; and behold, there was a throne set in heaven, and upon the throne there was One sitting;
Rev. 4:3 And He who was sitting was like a jasper stone and a sardius in appearance, and there was a rainbow around the throne like an emerald in appearance.
Rev. 4:4 And around the throne there were twenty-four thrones, and upon the thrones twenty-four elders sitting, clothed in white garments, and upon their heads golden crowns.
Rev. 4:5 And out of the throne come forth lightnings and voices and thunders. And there were seven lamps of fire burning before the throne, which are the seven Spirits of God;
Rev. 4:6 And before the throne there was as it were a glassy sea like crystal; and in the midst of the throne and around the throne, there were four living creatures full of eyes in front and behind.
Rev. 4:7 And the first living creature was like a lion, and the second living creature like a calf, and the third living creature had a face like that of a man, and the fourth living creature was like a flying eagle.
Rev. 4:8 And the four living creatures, each one of them having six wings apiece, are full of eyes around and within; and they have no rest day and night, saying, Holy, holy, holy, Lord God the Almighty, who was and who is and who is coming.
Rev. 4:9 And when the four living creatures give glory and honor and thanks to Him who sits upon the throne, to Him who lives forever and ever,
Rev. 4:10 The twenty-four elders will fall before Him who sits upon the throne and worship Him who lives forever and ever; and they will cast their crowns before the throne, saying,
Rev. 4:11 You are worthy, our Lord and God, to receive the glory and the honor and the power, for You have created all things, and because of Your will they were, and were created.

Revelation Chapter 5
Rev. 5:1 And I saw on the right hand of Him who sits upon the throne a scroll written within and on the back, sealed up with seven seals.
Rev. 5:2 And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the scroll and to break its seals?
Rev. 5:3 And no one in heaven nor on the earth nor under the earth was able to open the scroll or look into it.
Rev. 5:4 And I wept much because no one was found worthy to open the scroll or look into it.
Rev. 5:5 And one of the elders said to me, Do not weep; behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has overcome so that He may open the scroll and its seven seals.
Rev. 5:6 And I saw in the midst of the throne and of the four living creatures and in the midst of the elders a Lamb standing as having just been slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits of God sent forth into all the earth.
Rev. 5:7 And He came and took the scroll out of the right hand of Him who sits upon the throne.
Rev. 5:8 And when He took the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell before the Lamb, each having a harp and golden bowls full of incense, which bowls are the prayers of the saints.
Rev. 5:9 And they sing a new song, saying: You are worthy to take the scroll and to open its seals, for You were slain and have purchased for God by Your blood men out of every tribe and tongue and people and nation,
Rev. 5:10 And have made them a kingdom and priests to our God; and they will reign on the earth.
Rev. 5:11 And I saw, and I heard the voice of many angels around the throne and of the living creatures and of the elders, and their number was ten thousands of ten thousands and thousands of thousands,
Rev. 5:12 Saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb who has been slain to receive the power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing.
Rev. 5:13 And every creature which is in heaven and on the earth and under the earth and on the sea and all things in them, I heard saying, To Him who sits upon the throne and to the Lamb be the blessing and the honor and the glory and the might forever and ever.
Rev. 5:14 And the four living creatures said, Amen. And the elders fell down and worshipped.

Revelation Chapter 6
Rev. 6:1 And I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seven seals, and I heard one of the four living creatures saying like the sound of thunder, Come.
Rev. 6:2 And I saw, and behold, a white horse, and he who sits on it had a bow; and a crown was given to him, and he went forth conquering and to conquer.
Rev. 6:3 And when He opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature saying, Come.
Rev. 6:4 And I saw, and behold, another horse, a red one, went forth; and to him who sits on it, to him authority was given to take peace from the earth, and that men should slay one another; and to him a great sword was given.
Rev. 6:5 And when He opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature saying, Come. And I saw, and behold, a black horse; and he who sits on it had a balance in his hand.
Rev. 6:6 And I heard as it were a voice in the midst of the four living creatures, saying, A choenix of wheat for a denarius and three choenixes of barley for a denarius; and do not harm the oil and the wine.
Rev. 6:7 And when He opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature, saying, Come.
Rev. 6:8 And I saw, and behold, a pale horse, and he who sits upon it, his name is Death; and Hades followed with him. And authority was given to them over the fourth part of the earth to kill with the sword and with famine and with death and by the beasts of the earth.
Rev. 6:9 And when He opened the fifth seal, I saw underneath the altar the souls of those who had been slain because of the word of God and because of the testimony which they had.
Rev. 6:10 And they cried with a loud voice, saying, How long, O Master, holy and true, will You not judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth?
Rev. 6:11 And to each of them was given a white robe; and it was said to them that they should rest yet a little while, until also the number of their fellow slaves and their brothers who were about to be killed, even as they were, is completed.
Rev. 6:12 And I saw when He opened the sixth seal, and there was a great earthquake, and the sun became black like sackcloth made of hair, and the whole moon became like blood;
Rev. 6:13 And the stars of heaven fell to the earth as a fig tree casts its unripe figs when shaken by a great wind.
Rev. 6:14 And heaven was removed like a scroll being rolled up, and every mountain and island were moved out of their places.
Rev. 6:15 And the kings of the earth and the great men and the generals and the rich and the strong and every slave and free man hid themselves in the caves and in the rocks of the mountains;
Rev. 6:16 And they say to the mountains and to the rocks, Fall on us and hide us from the face of Him who sits upon the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb;
Rev. 6:17 For the great day of Their wrath has come, and who is able to stand?

Revelation Chapter 7
Rev. 7:1 After this I saw four angels standing at the four corners of the earth, holding the four winds of the earth, so that no wind would blow on the earth nor on the sea nor on any tree.
Rev. 7:2 And I saw another Angel ascending from the rising of the sun, having the seal of the living God; and He cried with a loud voice to the four angels to whom authority was given to harm the earth and the sea,
Rev. 7:3 Saying, Do not harm the earth or the sea or the trees until we seal the slaves of our God upon their foreheads.
Rev. 7:4 And I heard the number of those who were sealed, a hundred and forty-four thousand, sealed out of every tribe of the sons of Israel:
Rev. 7:5 Out of the tribe of Judah, twelve thousand sealed; out of the tribe of Reuben, twelve thousand; out of the tribe of Gad, twelve thousand;
Rev. 7:6 Out of the tribe of Asher, twelve thousand; out of the tribe of Naphtali, twelve thousand; out of the tribe of Manasseh, twelve thousand;
Rev. 7:7 Out of the tribe of Simeon, twelve thousand; out of the tribe of Levi, twelve thousand; out of the tribe of Issachar, twelve thousand;
Rev. 7:8 Out of the tribe of Zebulun, twelve thousand; out of the tribe of Joseph, twelve thousand; out of the tribe of Benjamin, twelve thousand sealed.
Rev. 7:9 After these things I saw, and behold, there was a great multitude which no one could number, out of every nation and all tribes and peoples and tongues, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes and palm branches in their hands.
Rev. 7:10 And they cry with a loud voice, saying, Salvation to our God who sits upon the throne and to the Lamb.
Rev. 7:11 And all the angels stood around the throne and the elders and the four living creatures; and they fell on their faces before the throne and worshipped God,
Rev. 7:12 Saying, Amen. The blessing and the glory and the wisdom and the thanks and the honor and the power and the strength be to our God forever and ever. Amen.
Rev. 7:13 And one of the elders answered, saying to me, These who are clothed in the white robes, who are they, and where did they come from?
Rev. 7:14 And I said to him, My lord, you know. And he said to me, These are those who come out of the great tribulation, and they have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.
Rev. 7:15 Because of this they are before the throne of God and serve Him day and night in His temple; and He who sits upon the throne will tabernacle over them.
Rev. 7:16 They will not hunger anymore, neither will they thirst anymore, neither will the sun beat upon them, nor any heat;
Rev. 7:17 For the Lamb who is in the midst of the throne will shepherd them and guide them to springs of waters of life; and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes.

Revelation Chapter 8
Rev. 8:1 And when He opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven for about half an hour.
Rev. 8:2 And I saw the seven angels who stand before God, and seven trumpets were given to them.
Rev. 8:3 And another Angel came and stood at the altar, having a golden censer, and much incense was given to Him to offer with the prayers of all the saints upon the golden altar which was before the throne.
Rev. 8:4 And the smoke of the incense went up with the prayers of the saints out of the hand of the Angel before God.
Rev. 8:5 And the Angel took the censer and filled it with the fire of the altar and cast it to the earth; and there were thunders and voices and lightnings and an earthquake.
Rev. 8:6 And the seven angels who had the seven trumpets prepared themselves to trumpet.
Rev. 8:7 And the first trumpeted, and there was hail and fire mingled with blood, and it was cast to the earth; and the third part of the earth was burned up, and the third part of the trees were burned up, and all green grass was burned up.
Rev. 8:8 And the second angel trumpeted, and as it were a great mountain burning with fire was cast into the sea; and the third part of the sea became blood,
Rev. 8:9 And the third part of the creatures which were in the sea and had life died, and the third part of the ships were destroyed.
Rev. 8:10 And the third angel trumpeted, and a great star fell out of heaven, burning like a torch, and it fell upon the third part of the rivers and upon the springs of waters.
Rev. 8:11 And the name of the star is called Wormwood; and the third part of the waters became wormwood, and many of the men died from the waters because they were made bitter.
Rev. 8:12 And the fourth angel trumpeted, and the third part of the sun and the third part of the moon and the third part of the stars were smitten, so that the third part of them would be darkened and the day would not appear for the third part of it, and the night likewise.
Rev. 8:13 And I saw, and I heard an eagle flying in mid-heaven, saying with a loud voice, Woe, woe, woe, to those who dwell on the earth because of the remaining trumpet sounds of the three angels who are about to trumpet!

Revelation Chapter 9
Rev. 9:1 And the fifth angel trumpeted, and I saw a star out of heaven fallen to the earth, and to him was given the key of the pit of the abyss.
Rev. 9:2 And he opened the pit of the abyss, and smoke went up out of the pit like the smoke of a great furnace; and the sun and the air were darkened by the smoke of the pit.
Rev. 9:3 And out of the smoke came forth locusts to the earth, and to them power was given, as the scorpions of the earth have power.
Rev. 9:4 And it was said to them that they should not harm the grass of the earth or any green thing or any tree, but men who do not have the seal of God on their foreheads.
Rev. 9:5 And it was given them that they should not kill them, but that they should be tormented five months; and their torment was like the torment of a scorpion when it strikes a man.
Rev. 9:6 And in those days men will seek death and shall by no means find it; and they will long to die, and death flees from them.
Rev. 9:7 And the locusts were like horses prepared for war, and on their heads there were as it were crowns like gold, and their faces were like faces of men.
Rev. 9:8 And they had hair like the hair of women, and their teeth were like the teeth of lions.
Rev. 9:9 And they had breastplates like breastplates of iron; and the sound of their wings was like the sound of chariots of many horses rushing into war.
Rev. 9:10 And they have tails like scorpions, and stings; and in their tails is their power to harm men for five months.
Rev. 9:11 They have a king over them, the angel of the abyss; his name in Hebrew is Abaddon; and in Greek he has the name Apollyon.
Rev. 9:12 The first woe has passed; behold, two woes are yet coming after these things.
Rev. 9:13 And the sixth angel trumpeted, and I heard a voice out of the four horns of the golden altar which is before God
Rev. 9:14 Saying to the sixth angel who had the trumpet, Release the four angels who are bound at the great river Euphrates.
Rev. 9:15 And the four angels were released, who had been prepared for the hour and day and month and year that they might kill the third part of men.
Rev. 9:16 And the number of the armies of horsemen was two hundred million; I heard their number.
Rev. 9:17 And thus I saw the horses in the vision and those sitting on them, having breastplates of fire and of hyacinth and of brimstone; and the heads of the horses were like the heads of lions, and out of their mouths proceed fire and smoke and brimstone.
Rev. 9:18 By these three plagues the third part of the men were killed, by the fire and the smoke and the brimstone proceeding out of their mouths.
Rev. 9:19 For the power of the horses is in their mouth and in their tails; for their tails are like serpents and have heads, and with them they harm men.
Rev. 9:20 And the rest of the men, who were not killed by these plagues, still did not repent of the works of their hands, so as not to worship the demons and the idols of gold and silver and brass and stone and wood, which can neither see nor hear nor walk;
Rev. 9:21 And they did not repent of their murders or of their sorceries or of their fornication or of their thefts.

Revelation Chapter 10
Rev. 10:1 And I saw another strong Angel coming down out of heaven, clothed with a cloud; and the rainbow was upon His head, and His face was like the sun, and His feet like pillars of fire;
Rev. 10:2 And He had in His hand a little opened scroll. And He placed His right foot on the sea and the left on the land;
Rev. 10:3 And He cried out with a loud voice just as a lion roars. And when He cried out, the seven thunders uttered their own voices.
Rev. 10:4 And when the seven thunders spoke, I was about to write, and I heard a voice out of heaven, saying, Seal the things which the seven thunders spoke, and do not write them.
Rev. 10:5 And the Angel whom I saw standing on the sea and on the land lifted up His right hand to heaven
Rev. 10:6 And swore by Him who lives forever and ever, who created heaven and the things in it, and the earth and the things in it, and the sea and the things in it, that there shall be delay no longer,
Rev. 10:7 But in the days of the voice of the seventh angel when he is about to trumpet, then the mystery of God is finished, as He has announced the good news to His own slaves the prophets.
Rev. 10:8 And the voice which I heard out of heaven, I heard again speaking with me and saying, Go, take the opened scroll in the hand of the Angel who is standing on the sea and on the land.
Rev. 10:9 And I went to the Angel and told Him to give me the little scroll. And He said to me, Take it and devour it, and it will make your stomach bitter, but in your mouth it will be as sweet as honey.
Rev. 10:10 And I took the little scroll out of the hand of the Angel and devoured it, and it was as sweet as honey in my mouth; and when I had eaten it, my stomach became bitter.
Rev. 10:11 And they said to me, You must prophesy again over many peoples and nations and tongues and kings.

Revelation Chapter 11
Rev. 11:1 And there was given to me a reed like a rod, and someone said, Rise and measure the temple of God and the altar and those who worship in it.
Rev. 11:2 And the court which is outside the temple cast out and do not measure it, because it has been given to the Gentiles, and they will trample the holy city for forty-two months.
Rev. 11:3 And I will cause My two witnesses to prophesy a thousand two hundred and sixty days, clothed in sackcloth.
Rev. 11:4 These are the two olive trees and the two lampstands which stand before the Lord of the earth.
Rev. 11:5 And if anyone desires to harm them, fire proceeds out of their mouth and devours their enemies. And if anyone desires to harm them, thus must he be killed.
Rev. 11:6 These have the authority to shut heaven that no rain may fall during the days of their prophecy; and they have authority over the waters to turn them into blood and to smite the earth with every plague as often as they desire.
Rev. 11:7 And when they have completed their testimony, the beast who comes up out of the abyss will make war with them and will overcome them and kill them.
Rev. 11:8 And their corpses will be on the street of the great city, which spiritually is called Sodom and Egypt, where also their Lord was crucified.
Rev. 11:9 And those of the peoples and tribes and tongues and nations see their corpses for three and a half days, and they do not allow their corpses to be placed in a tomb.
Rev. 11:10 And those who dwell on the earth rejoice over them and make merry; and they will send gifts to one another because these two prophets tormented those who dwell on the earth.
Rev. 11:11 And after the three and a half days, the breath of life out of God entered into them, and they stood on their feet; and great fear fell upon those beholding them.
Rev. 11:12 And they heard a loud voice out of heaven saying to them, Come up here. And they went up into heaven in the cloud, and their enemies beheld them.
Rev. 11:13 And in that hour there was a great earthquake, and the tenth part of the city fell; and seven thousand men were killed in the earthquake, and the rest became terrified and gave glory to the God of heaven.
Rev. 11:14 The second woe has passed; behold, the third woe is coming quickly.
Rev. 11:15 And the seventh angel trumpeted; and there were loud voices in heaven, saying, The kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of His Christ, and He will reign forever and ever.
Rev. 11:16 And the twenty-four elders who sit before God on their thrones fell on their faces and worshipped God,
Rev. 11:17 Saying, We thank You, Lord God the Almighty, He who is and who was, because You have taken Your great power and have reigned.
Rev. 11:18 And the nations became angry, and Your wrath came, and the time came for the dead to be judged, and the time to give the reward to Your slaves the prophets and to the saints and to those who fear Your name, to the small and to the great, and to destroy those who destroy the earth.

Revelation Chapter 12
Rev. 12:1 And a great sign was seen in heaven: a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon underneath her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars;
Rev. 12:2 And she was with child, and she cried out, travailing in birth and being in pain to bring forth.
Rev. 12:3 And another sign was seen in heaven; and behold, there was a great red dragon, having seven heads and ten horns, and on his heads seven diadems.
Rev. 12:4 And his tail drags away the third part of the stars of heaven, and he cast them to the earth. And the dragon stood before the woman who was about to bring forth, so that when she brings forth he might devour her child.
Rev. 12:5 And she brought forth a son, a man-child, who is to shepherd all the nations with an iron rod; and her child was caught up to God and to His throne.
Rev. 12:6 And the woman fled into the wilderness, where she has a place there prepared by God so that they might nourish her there a thousand two hundred and sixty days.
Rev. 12:7 And there was war in heaven: Michael and his angels went to war with the dragon. And the dragon warred and his angels.
Rev. 12:8 And they did not prevail, neither was their place found any longer in heaven.
Rev. 12:9 And the great dragon was cast down, the ancient serpent, he who is called the Devil and Satan, he who deceives the whole inhabited earth; he was cast to the earth, and his angels were cast down with him.
Rev. 12:10 And I heard a loud voice in heaven, saying, Now has come the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God and the authority of His Christ, for the accuser of our brothers has been cast down, who accuses them before our God day and night.
Rev. 12:11 And they overcame him because of the blood of the Lamb and because of the word of their testimony, and they loved not their soul-life even unto death.
Rev. 12:12 Therefore be glad, O heavens and those who dwell in them. Woe to the earth and the sea because the devil has come down to you and has great rage, knowing that he has only a short time.
Rev. 12:13 And when the dragon saw that he was cast to the earth, he persecuted the woman who brought forth the man-child.
Rev. 12:14 And to the woman there were given the two wings of the great eagle that she might fly into the wilderness into her place, where she is nourished for a time and times and half a time from the face of the serpent.
Rev. 12:15 And the serpent cast water as a river out of his mouth after the woman that he might cause her to be carried away by its current.
Rev. 12:16 And the earth helped the woman, and the earth opened its mouth and swallowed the river which the dragon cast out of his mouth.
Rev. 12:17 And the dragon became angry with the woman and went away to make war with the rest of her seed, who keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus.
Rev. 12:18 And he stood on the sand of the sea.

Revelation Chapter 13
Rev. 13:1 And I saw a beast coming up out of the sea, having ten horns and seven heads, and on his horns ten diadems, and on his heads names of blasphemy.
Rev. 13:2 And the beast which I saw was like a leopard, and his feet like those of a bear, and his mouth like the mouth of a lion. And the dragon gave him his power and his throne and great authority.
Rev. 13:3 And one of his heads was as it were slain to death, and his death stroke was healed. And the whole earth marveled after the beast.
Rev. 13:4 And they worshipped the dragon because he gave his authority to the beast; and they worshipped the beast, saying, Who is like the beast? And who can make war with him?
Rev. 13:5 And there was given to him a mouth speaking great things and blasphemies, and authority was given to him to act for forty-two months.
Rev. 13:6 And he opened his mouth for blasphemies against God, to blaspheme His name and His tabernacle, which tabernacle in heaven.
Rev. 13:7 And permission was given to him to make war with the saints and to overcome them; and authority was given to him over every tribe and people and tongue and nation.
Rev. 13:8 And all those dwelling on the earth will worship him, everyone whose name is not written in the book of life of the Lamb who was slain from the foundation of the world.
Rev. 13:9 If anyone has an ear, let him hear.
Rev. 13:10 If anyone is for captivity, into captivity he goes; if anyone kills with the sword, with the sword he is to be killed. Here is the endurance and the faith of the saints.
Rev. 13:11 And I saw another beast coming up out of the earth, and he had two horns like a lamb, and he spoke like a dragon.
Rev. 13:12 And he exercises all the authority of the first beast in his sight, and he causes the earth and those who dwell in it to worship the first beast, whose death stroke was healed.
Rev. 13:13 And he does great signs, so that he even makes fire come down out of heaven to the earth before men.
Rev. 13:14 And he deceives those who dwell on the earth on account of the signs which he was given power to do before the beast, commanding those who dwell on the earth to make an image to the beast, who had the stroke of the sword and revived.
Rev. 13:15 And power was given to him to give breath to the image of the beast that the image of the beast might even speak and cause whoever would not worship the image of the beast to be killed.
Rev. 13:16 And he causes all, the small and the great, and the rich and the poor, and the freemen and the slaves, to be given a mark on their right hand or on their forehead,
Rev. 13:17 And that no one may be able to buy or sell except him who has the mark, that is, the name of the beast or the number of his name.
Rev. 13:18 Here is wisdom. Let him who has understanding calculate the number of the beast, for it is the number of a man; and his number is six hundred sixty-six.

Revelation Chapter 14
Rev. 14:1 And I saw, and behold, the Lamb standing on Mount Zion, and with Him a hundred and forty-four thousand, having His name and the name of His Father written on their foreheads.
Rev. 14:2 And I heard a voice out of heaven like the sound of many waters and like the sound of loud thunder; and the voice which I heard was like the sound of harp-singers playing on their harps.
Rev. 14:3 And they sing a new song before the throne and before the four living creatures and the elders; and no one could learn the song except the hundred and forty-four thousand, who have been purchased from the earth.
Rev. 14:4 These are they who have not been defiled with women, for they are virgins. These are they who follow the Lamb wherever He may go. These were purchased from among men as firstfruits to God and to the Lamb.
Rev. 14:5 And in their mouth no lie was found; they are without blemish.
Rev. 14:6 And I saw another angel flying in mid-heaven, having an eternal gospel to announce to those dwelling on the earth, even to every nation and tribe and tongue and people,
Rev. 14:7 Saying with a loud voice, Fear God and give Him glory because the hour of His judgment has come; and worship Him who has made heaven and earth and the sea and the springs of waters.
Rev. 14:8 And another angel, a second one, followed, saying, Fallen, fallen is Babylon the Great, who has made all the nations drink of the wine of the fury of her fornication!
Rev. 14:9 And another angel, a third one, followed them, saying with a loud voice, If anyone worships the beast and his image and receives a mark on his forehead or on his hand,
Rev. 14:10 He also shall drink of the wine of the fury of God, which is mixed undiluted in the cup of His wrath; and he shall be tormented in fire and brimstone before the holy angels and before the Lamb.
Rev. 14:11 And the smoke of their tormenting goes up forever and ever; and they have no rest day and night, those who worship the beast and his image, and whoever receives the mark of his name.
Rev. 14:12 Here is the endurance of the saints, those who keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus.
Rev. 14:13 And I heard a voice out of heaven, saying, Write, Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on. Yes, says the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors; for their works follow with them.
Rev. 14:14 And I saw, and behold, there was a white cloud, and on the cloud One like the Son of Man sitting, having a golden crown on His head and a sharp sickle in His hand.
Rev. 14:15 And another angel came out of the temple, crying with a loud voice to Him who sat on the cloud, Send forth Your sickle and reap, for the hour to reap has come because the harvest of the earth is ripe.
Rev. 14:16 And He who sat on the cloud thrust His sickle upon the earth, and the earth was reaped.
Rev. 14:17 And another angel came out of the temple which is in heaven, he also having a sharp sickle.
Rev. 14:18 And another angel came out of the altar, he who has authority over fire, and he cried with a loud voice to him who had the sharp sickle, saying, Send forth your sharp sickle and gather the clusters of the vine of the earth, for her grapes are fully ripened.
Rev. 14:19 And the angel thrust his sickle into the earth and gathered the vine of the earth and cast it into the great winepress of the fury of God.
Rev. 14:20 And the winepress was trodden outside the city, and blood came out of the winepress up to the bridles of the horses for a thousand six hundred stadia.

Revelation Chapter 15
Rev. 15:1 And I saw another sign in heaven, great and wonderful, seven angels having seven plagues, the last plagues; for in them the fury of God was finished.
Rev. 15:2 And I saw as it were a glassy sea mingled with fire and those who come away victorious from the beast and from his image and from the number of his name standing on the glassy sea, having harps of God.
Rev. 15:3 And they sing the song of Moses, the slave of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying, Great and wonderful are Your works, Lord God the Almighty! Righteous and true are Your ways, O King of the nations!
Rev. 15:4 Who will not fear, O Lord, and glorify Your name? For You alone are holy; for all the nations will come and worship before You, for Your righteous judgments have been manifested.
Rev. 15:5 And after these things I saw, and the temple of the Tabernacle of the Testimony in heaven was opened,
Rev. 15:6 And the seven angels who had the seven plagues came out of the temple, clothed in clean bright linen and girded around the breasts with golden girdles.
Rev. 15:7 And one of the four living creatures gave to the seven angels seven golden bowls full of the fury of God, who lives forever and ever.
Rev. 15:8 And the temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God and from His power, and no one could enter into the temple until the seven plagues of the seven angels were finished.

Revelation Chapter 16
Rev. 16:1 And I heard a loud voice out of the temple, saying to the seven angels, Go and pour out the seven bowls of the fury of God into the earth.
Rev. 16:2 And the first went and poured out his bowl into the earth; and there came to be an evil and malignant sore upon the men who have the mark of the beast and worship his image.
Rev. 16:3 And the second poured out his bowl into the sea, and it became blood like that of a dead man; and every living soul that was in the sea died.
Rev. 16:4 And the third poured out his bowl into the rivers and the springs of waters; and they became blood.
Rev. 16:5 And I heard the angel who had power over the waters, saying, You are righteous, who is and who was, the Holy One, because You have judged these things;
Rev. 16:6 For they poured out the blood of saints and prophets, and You have given them blood to drink; they are worthy of it.
Rev. 16:7 And I heard the altar saying, Yes, Lord God the Almighty, true and righteous are Your judgments.
Rev. 16:8 And the fourth poured out his bowl upon the sun; and it was given to it to burn men with fire.
Rev. 16:9 And men were burned with great heat, and they blasphemed the name of God, who has the authority over these plagues, and they did not repent so as to give Him glory.
Rev. 16:10 And the fifth poured out his bowl upon the throne of the beast; and his kingdom became darkened; and they gnawed their tongues for pain
Rev. 16:11 And blasphemed the God of heaven for their pains and for their sores; and they did not repent of their works.
Rev. 16:12 And the sixth poured out his bowl upon the great river Euphrates; and its water was dried up that the way of the kings from the rising of the sun might be prepared.
Rev. 16:13 And I saw, out of the mouth of the dragon and out of the mouth of the beast and out of the mouth of the false prophet, three unclean spirits as frogs;
Rev. 16:14 For they are spirits of demons doing signs, which go forth to the kings of the whole inhabited earth to gather them to the war of the great day of God the Almighty.
Rev. 16:15 (Behold, I come as a thief. Blessed is he who watches and keeps his garments that he may not walk naked and they see his shame.)
Rev. 16:16 And they gathered them to the place which in Hebrew is called, Armageddon.
Rev. 16:17 And the seventh poured out his bowl upon the air; and a loud voice came out of the temple from the throne, saying, It is done.
Rev. 16:18 And there were lightnings and voices and thunders; and there was a great earthquake, such as had not been since man appeared on the earth, such an earthquake, so great.
Rev. 16:19 And the great city was divided into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell. And Babylon the Great was remembered before God to give her the cup of the wine of the fury of His wrath.
Rev. 16:20 And every island fled, and the mountains were not found.
Rev. 16:21 And great hail, every stone about the weight of a talent, came down out of heaven upon men; and men blasphemed God for the plague of the hail, because the plague of it is exceedingly great.

Revelation Chapter 17
Rev. 17:1 And one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and spoke with me, saying, Come here; I will show you the judgment of the great harlot who sits upon the many waters,
Rev. 17:2 With whom the kings of the earth have committed fornication, and those who dwell on the earth have been made drunk with the wine of her fornication.
Rev. 17:3 And he carried me away in spirit into a wilderness; and I saw a woman sitting upon a scarlet beast, full of names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns.
Rev. 17:4 And the woman was clothed in purple and scarlet, and gilded with gold and precious stone and pearls, having in her hand a golden cup full of abominations and the unclean things of her fornication.
Rev. 17:5 And on her forehead there was a name written, MYSTERY, BABYLON THE GREAT, THE MOTHER OF THE HARLOTS AND THE ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH.
Rev. 17:6 And I saw the woman drunk with the blood of the saints and with the blood of the witnesses of Jesus. And I marveled with great marvel when I saw her.
Rev. 17:7 And the angel said to me, Why did you marvel? I will tell you the mystery of the woman and of the beast who bears her, who has the seven heads and the ten horns.
Rev. 17:8 The beast that you saw was and is not and is about to come up out of the abyss and go into perdition. And those who dwell on the earth, those whose names are not written from the foundation of the world in the book of life, will marvel when they see the beast, that he was and is not and will be present.
Rev. 17:9 Here is the mind which has wisdom. The seven heads are the seven mountains where the woman sits
Rev. 17:10 And are seven kings: five have fallen, one is, the other has not yet come; and when he comes, he must remain only a short time.
Rev. 17:11 And the beast who was and is not, he himself is also the eighth and is out of the seven and goes into perdition.
Rev. 17:12 And the ten horns which you saw are ten kings, who have not yet received a kingdom but receive authority as kings for one hour with the beast.
Rev. 17:13 These have one mind, and they give their power and authority to the beast.
Rev. 17:14 These will make war with the Lamb, and the Lamb will overcome them, for He is Lord of lords and King of kings; and they who are with Him, the called and chosen and faithful, will also overcome them.
Rev. 17:15 And he said to me, The waters which you saw, where the harlot sits, are peoples and multitudes and nations and tongues.
Rev. 17:16 And the ten horns which you saw and the beast, these will hate the harlot and will make her desolate and naked and will eat her flesh and burn her utterly with fire.
Rev. 17:17 For God has put it into their hearts to perform His mind and to perform one mind and to give their kingdom to the beast until the words of God are accomplished.
Rev. 17:18 And the woman whom you saw is the great city, which has a kingdom over the kings of the earth.

Revelation Chapter 18
Rev. 18:1 After these things I saw another Angel coming down out of heaven, having great authority; and the earth was illumined with His glory.
Rev. 18:2 And He cried with a strong voice, saying, Fallen, fallen is Babylon the Great! And she has become a dwelling place of demons and a hold of every unclean spirit and a hold of every unclean and hateful bird;
Rev. 18:3 For all the nations have drunk of the wine of the fury of her fornication, and the kings of the earth have committed fornication with her, and the merchants of the earth have become rich by the power of her luxury.
Rev. 18:4 And I heard another voice out of heaven, saying, Come out of her, My people, that you do not participate in her sins and that you do not receive her plagues;
Rev. 18:5 For her sins have accumulated up to heaven, and God has remembered her unrighteousnesses.
Rev. 18:6 Pay her back even as she has paid, and double to her double according to her works; in the cup which she has mixed, mix double to her.
Rev. 18:7 As much as she has glorified herself and lived luxuriously, as much torment and sorrow give to her; for she says in her heart, I sit a queen, and I am not a widow, and I shall by no means see sorrow.
Rev. 18:8 Therefore in one day her plagues will come, death and sorrow and famine, and she will be utterly burned with fire; for the Lord God who judges her is strong.
Rev. 18:9 And the kings of the earth, who have committed fornication and lived luxuriously with her, will weep and lament over her when they see the smoke of her burning,
Rev. 18:10 Standing afar off because of fear of her torment, saying, Woe, woe, the great city, Babylon, the strong city, for in one hour your judgment has come!
Rev. 18:11 And the merchants of the earth weep and mourn over her because no one buys their cargo anymore:
Rev. 18:12 Cargo of gold and silver and precious stone and pearls and fine linen and purple and silk and scarlet, and every kind of thyine wood, and every vessel of ivory, and every vessel of most precious wood and brass and iron and marble,
Rev. 18:13 And cinnamon and amomum and incense and ointment and frankincense and wine and oil and fine flour and wheat and cattle and sheep, and cargo of horses and chariots and slaves and souls of men.
Rev. 18:14 And the ripe fruits of your soul’s lust have gone away from you, and all the sumptuous and splendid things have perished from you; and men will find them no more at all.
Rev. 18:15 The merchants of these things, who became rich by her, will stand afar off because of the fear of her torment, weeping and mourning,
Rev. 18:16 Saying, Woe, woe, the great city, which was clothed in fine linen and purple and scarlet, and gilded with gold and precious stone and pearl;
Rev. 18:17 For in one hour such great wealth has become desolate! And every ship captain and everyone sailing to a place and sailors and all who work on the sea stood afar off
Rev. 18:18 And cried out, seeing the smoke of her burning, saying, What city is like the great city?
Rev. 18:19 And they cast dust on their heads and cried out, weeping and mourning, saying, Woe, woe, the great city, by which all those who have ships on the sea became rich from her wealth, for in one hour she has become desolate!
Rev. 18:20 Be glad over her, O heaven and saints and apostles and prophets, because God has judged judgment for you upon her.
Rev. 18:21 And a strong angel took up a stone like a great millstone and threw it into the sea, saying, Thus will Babylon, the great city, be thrown down with violence and shall be found no more at all.
Rev. 18:22 And the sound of harp-singers and musicians and flutists and trumpeters shall be heard no more at all in you, and no craftsman of any craft shall be found anymore at all in you, and the sound of a millstone shall be heard no more at all in you,
Rev. 18:23 And the light of a lamp shall shine no more at all in you, and the voice of bridegroom and bride shall be heard no more at all in you; for your merchants were the great ones of the earth, for by your sorcery all the nations were deceived.
Rev. 18:24 And in her was found the blood of prophets and of saints and of all who have been slain on the earth.

Revelation Chapter 19
Rev. 19:1 After these things I heard as it were a loud voice of a great multitude in heaven, saying, Hallelujah! The salvation and the glory and the power are of our God.
Rev. 19:2 For true and righteous are His judgments; for He has judged the great harlot who corrupted the earth with her fornication, and He avenged the blood of His slaves at her hand.
Rev. 19:3 And a second time they said, Hallelujah! And her smoke goes up forever and ever.
Rev. 19:4 And the twenty-four elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshipped God, who sits upon the throne, saying, Amen, Hallelujah!
Rev. 19:5 And a voice came out from the throne, saying, Praise our God, all His slaves and those who fear Him, the small and the great.
Rev. 19:6 And I heard as it were the voice of a great multitude and like the sound of many waters and like the sound of mighty thunders, saying, Hallelujah! For the Lord our God the Almighty reigns.
Rev. 19:7 Let us rejoice and exult, and let us give the glory to Him, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and His wife has made herself ready.
Rev. 19:8 And it was given to her that she should be clothed in fine linen, bright and clean; for the fine linen is the righteousnesses of the saints.
Rev. 19:9 And he said to me, Write, Blessed are they who are called to the marriage dinner of the Lamb. And he said to me, These are the true words of God.
Rev. 19:10 And I fell before his feet to worship him. And he said to me, Do not do this. I am your fellow slave and a fellow slave of your brothers who have the testimony of Jesus. Worship God. For the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of the prophecy.
Rev. 19:11 And I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white horse, and He who sits on it called Faithful and True, and in righteousness He judges and makes war.
Rev. 19:12 And His eyes are a flame of fire, and on His head are many diadems, and He has a name written which no one knows but Himself.
Rev. 19:13 And He is clothed with a garment dipped in blood; and His name is called the Word of God.
Rev. 19:14 And the armies which are in heaven followed Him on white horses, dressed in fine linen, white and clean.
Rev. 19:15 And out of His mouth proceeds a sharp sword, that with it He might smite the nations; and He will shepherd them with an iron rod; and He treads the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God the Almighty.
Rev. 19:16 And He has on His garment and on His thigh a name written, KING OF KINGS AND LORD OF LORDS.
Rev. 19:17 And I saw an angel standing in the sun, and he cried out with a loud voice, saying to all the birds that fly in mid-heaven, Come here; gather yourselves to the great dinner of God,
Rev. 19:18 That you may eat the flesh of kings and the flesh of generals and the flesh of mighty men and the flesh of horses and of those who sit on them and the flesh of all men, both free and slave and small and great.
Rev. 19:19 And I saw the beast and the kings of the earth and their armies gathered together to make war with Him who sits on the horse and with His army.
Rev. 19:20 And the beast was seized, and with him the false prophet, who in his presence had done the signs by which he deceived those who received the mark of the beast and those who worshipped his image. These two were cast alive into the lake of fire, which burns with brimstone.
Rev. 19:21 And the rest were killed with the sword which proceeds out of the mouth of Him who sits on the horse, and all the birds were filled with their flesh.

Revelation Chapter 20
Rev. 20:1 And I saw an angel coming down out of heaven, having the key of the abyss and a great chain in his hand.
Rev. 20:2 And he laid hold of the dragon, the ancient serpent, who is the Devil and Satan, and bound him for a thousand years
Rev. 20:3 And cast him into the abyss and shut it and sealed it over him, that he might not deceive the nations any longer until the thousand years were completed; after these things he must be loosed for a little while.
Rev. 20:4 And I saw thrones, and they sat upon them, and judgment was given to them. And I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded because of the testimony of Jesus and because of the word of God, and of those who had not worshipped the beast nor his image, and had not received the mark on their forehead and on their hand; and they lived and reigned with Christ for a thousand years.
Rev. 20:5 The rest of the dead did not live again until the thousand years were completed. This is the first resurrection.
Rev. 20:6 Blessed and holy is he who has part in the first resurrection; over these the second death has no authority, but they will be priests of God and of Christ and will reign with Him for a thousand years.
Rev. 20:7 And when the thousand years are completed, Satan will be released from his prison
Rev. 20:8 And will go out to deceive the nations which are in the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them together for the war. Their number is like that of the sand of the sea.
Rev. 20:9 And they went up upon the breadth of the earth and surrounded the camp of the saints and the beloved city; and fire came down out of heaven and devoured them.
Rev. 20:10 And the devil, who deceived them, was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone, where also the beast and the false prophet were; and they will be tormented day and night forever and ever.
Rev. 20:11 And I saw a great white throne and Him who sat upon it, from whose face earth and heaven fled away, and no place was found for them.
Rev. 20:12 And I saw the dead, the great and the small, standing before the throne, and scrolls were opened; and another scroll was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged by the things which were written in the scrolls, according to their works.
Rev. 20:13 And the sea gave up the dead which were in it, and death and Hades gave up the dead which were in them; and they were judged, each of them, according to their works.
Rev. 20:14 And death and Hades were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire.
Rev. 20:15 And if anyone was not found written in the book of life, he was cast into the lake of fire.

Revelation Chapter 21

Rev. 21:1 And I saw a new heaven and a new earth; for the first heaven and the first earth passed away, and the sea is no more.
Rev. 21:2 And I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.
Rev. 21:3 And I heard a loud voice out of the throne, saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and He will tabernacle with them, and they will be His peoples, and God Himself will be with them and be their God.
Rev. 21:4 And He will wipe away every tear from their eyes; and death will be no more, nor will there be sorrow or crying or pain anymore; for the former things have passed away.
Rev. 21:5 And He who sits on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And He said, Write, for these words are faithful and true.
Rev. 21:6 And He said to me, They have come to pass. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the End. I will give to him who thirsts from the spring of the water of life freely.
Rev. 21:7 He who overcomes will inherit these things, and I will be God to him, and he will be a son to Me.
Rev. 21:8 But the cowardly and unbelieving and abominable and murderers and fornicators and sorcerers and idolaters and all the false, their part will be in the lake which burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death.
Rev. 21:9 And one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls full of the seven last plagues came and spoke with me, saying, Come here; I will show you the bride, the wife of the Lamb.
Rev. 21:10 And he carried me away in spirit onto a great and high mountain and showed me the holy city, Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God,
Rev. 21:11 Having the glory of God. Her light was like a most precious stone, like a jasper stone, as clear as crystal.
Rev. 21:12 It had a great and high wall and had twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and names inscribed, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel:
Rev. 21:13 On the east three gates, and on the north three gates, and on the south three gates, and on the west three gates.
Rev. 21:14 And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and on them the twelve names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
Rev. 21:15 And he who spoke with me had a golden reed as a measure that he might measure the city and its gates and its wall.
Rev. 21:16 And the city lies square, and its length is as great as the breadth. And he measured the city with the reed to a length of twelve thousand stadia; the length and the breadth and the height of it are equal.
Rev. 21:17 And he measured its wall, a hundred and forty-four cubits, according to the measure of a man, that is, of an angel.
Rev. 21:18 And the building work of its wall was jasper; and the city was pure gold, like clear glass.
Rev. 21:19 The foundations of the wall of the city were adorned with every precious stone: the first foundation was jasper; the second, sapphire; the third, chalcedony; the fourth, emerald;
Rev. 21:20 The fifth, sardonyx; the sixth, sardius; the seventh, chrysolite; the eighth, beryl; the ninth, topaz; the tenth, chrysoprase; the eleventh, jacinth; the twelfth, amethyst.
Rev. 21:21 And the twelve gates were twelve pearls; each one of the gates was, respectively, of one pearl. And the street of the city was pure gold, like transparent glass.
Rev. 21:22 And I saw no temple in it, for the Lord God the Almighty and the Lamb are its temple.
Rev. 21:23 And the city has no need of the sun or of the moon that they should shine in it, for the glory of God illumined it, and its lamp is the Lamb.
Rev. 21:24 And the nations will walk by its light; and the kings of the earth bring their glory into it.
Rev. 21:25 And its gates shall by no means be shut by day, for there will be no night there.
Rev. 21:26 And they will bring the glory and the honor of the nations into it.
Rev. 21:27 And anything common and he who makes an abomination and a lie shall by no means enter into it, but only those who are written in the Lamb’s book of life.

Revelation Chapter 22
Rev. 22:1 And he showed me a river of water of life, bright as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb in the middle of its street.
Rev. 22:2 And on this side and on that side of the river was the tree of life, producing twelve fruits, yielding its fruit each month; and the leaves of the tree are for the healing of the nations.
Rev. 22:3 And there will no longer be a curse. And the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and His slaves will serve Him;
Rev. 22:4 And they will see His face, and His name will be on their foreheads.
Rev. 22:5 And night will be no more; and they have no need of the light of a lamp and of the light of the sun, for the Lord God will shine upon them; and they will reign forever and ever.
Rev. 22:6 And he said to me, These words are faithful and true; and the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, has sent His angel to show to His slaves the things which must quickly take place.
Rev. 22:7 And behold, I come quickly. Blessed is he who keeps the words of the prophecy of this scroll.
Rev. 22:8 And I John am he who hears and sees these things. And when I heard and saw, I fell to worship before the feet of the angel who showed me these things.
Rev. 22:9 And he said to me, Do not do that! I am your fellow slave and a fellow slave of your brothers the prophets and of those who keep the words of this scroll. Worship God.
Rev. 22:10 And he said to me, Do not seal the words of the prophecy of this scroll, for the time is near.
Rev. 22:11 Let him who does unrighteousness do unrighteousness still; and let him who is filthy be filthy still; and let him who is righteous do righteousness still; and let him who is holy be holy still.
Rev. 22:12 Behold, I come quickly, and My reward is with Me to render to each one as his work is.
Rev. 22:13 I am the Alpha and the Omega, the First and the Last, the Beginning and the End.
Rev. 22:14 Blessed are those who wash their robes that they may have right to the tree of life and may enter by the gates into the city.
Rev. 22:15 Outside are the dogs and the sorcerers and the fornicators and the murderers and the idolaters and everyone who loves and makes a lie.
Rev. 22:16 I Jesus have sent My angel to testify to you these things for the churches. I am the Root and the Offspring of David, the bright morning star.
Rev. 22:17 And the Spirit and the bride say, Come! And let him who hears say, Come! And let him who is thirsty come; let him who wills take the water of life freely.
Rev. 22:18 I testify to everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this scroll: If anyone adds to them, God will add to him the plagues which are written in this scroll;
Rev. 22:19 And if anyone takes away from the words of the scroll of this prophecy, God will take away his part from the tree of life and out of the holy city, which are written in this scroll.
Rev. 22:20 He who testifies these things says, Yes, I come quickly. Amen. Come, Lord Jesus!
Rev. 22:21 The grace of the Lord Jesus be with all the saints. Amen.